,question,correct_answer,guess,buzz
0,".One composer from this country repeated the phrase ""Tirilil Tove"" in one of his choral Rose Garden Songs. Another composer from this country imitated a cork pop at the beginning of his ""Champagne Galop."" A composer from this country conducted the premiere of Felix Mendelssohn's Violin Concerto in E minor and wrote the overture Echoes of Ossian. The ""Ephphatha Chorus"" ends the opera Antikrist by a composer from this country who also wrote Music of the Spheres. A composer from this country instructed the snare drum to improvise as if to stop the orchestra's progress in his Symphony No. 5",Kingdom of Denmark,Felix_Mendelssohn,[ True]
1,".One composer from this country repeated the phrase ""Tirilil Tove"" in one of his choral Rose Garden Songs. Another composer from this country imitated a cork pop at the beginning of his ""Champagne Galop."" A composer from this country conducted the premiere of Felix Mendelssohn's Violin Concerto in E minor and wrote the overture Echoes of Ossian. The ""Ephphatha Chorus"" ends the opera Antikrist by a composer from this country who also wrote Music of the Spheres. A composer from this country instructed the snare drum to improvise as if to stop the orchestra's progress in his Symphony No. 5. That composer of a noted wind quintet created a battle between sets of timpani in his Symphony No",Kingdom of Denmark,Felix_Mendelssohn,[ True]
2,".One composer from this country repeated the phrase ""Tirilil Tove"" in one of his choral Rose Garden Songs. Another composer from this country imitated a cork pop at the beginning of his ""Champagne Galop."" A composer from this country conducted the premiere of Felix Mendelssohn's Violin Concerto in E minor and wrote the overture Echoes of Ossian. The ""Ephphatha Chorus"" ends the opera Antikrist by a composer from this country who also wrote Music of the Spheres. A composer from this country instructed the snare drum to improvise as if to stop the orchestra's progress in his Symphony No. 5. That composer of a noted wind quintet created a battle between sets of timpani in his Symphony No. 4, dubbed ""Inextinguishable",Kingdom of Denmark,Felix_Mendelssohn,[ True]
3,".One composer from this country repeated the phrase ""Tirilil Tove"" in one of his choral Rose Garden Songs. Another composer from this country imitated a cork pop at the beginning of his ""Champagne Galop."" A composer from this country conducted the premiere of Felix Mendelssohn's Violin Concerto in E minor and wrote the overture Echoes of Ossian. The ""Ephphatha Chorus"" ends the opera Antikrist by a composer from this country who also wrote Music of the Spheres. A composer from this country instructed the snare drum to improvise as if to stop the orchestra's progress in his Symphony No. 5. That composer of a noted wind quintet created a battle between sets of timpani in his Symphony No. 4, dubbed ""Inextinguishable."" For 10 points, name this home country of Niels Gade, Rued Langgaard, and Carl Nielsen",Kingdom of Denmark,Felix_Mendelssohn,[ True]
4,".One composer from this country repeated the phrase ""Tirilil Tove"" in one of his choral Rose Garden Songs. Another composer from this country imitated a cork pop at the beginning of his ""Champagne Galop."" A composer from this country conducted the premiere of Felix Mendelssohn's Violin Concerto in E minor and wrote the overture Echoes of Ossian. The ""Ephphatha Chorus"" ends the opera Antikrist by a composer from this country who also wrote Music of the Spheres. A composer from this country instructed the snare drum to improvise as if to stop the orchestra's progress in his Symphony No. 5. That composer of a noted wind quintet created a battle between sets of timpani in his Symphony No. 4, dubbed ""Inextinguishable."" For 10 points, name this home country of Niels Gade, Rued Langgaard, and Carl Nielsen.",Kingdom of Denmark,Felix_Mendelssohn,[ True]
5,".After this god's son brought Hippolytus back to life, Asclepius was killed by Zeus. Along with his sister, he killed Niobe's seven sons. He slew the dragon Python and established the Oracle of Delphi at the place where it died. This son of Leto pursued the nymph (*) Daphne, only for her to turn into a laurel tree",Apollo,Zeus,[ True]
6,".After this god's son brought Hippolytus back to life, Asclepius was killed by Zeus. Along with his sister, he killed Niobe's seven sons. He slew the dragon Python and established the Oracle of Delphi at the place where it died. This son of Leto pursued the nymph (*) Daphne, only for her to turn into a laurel tree. For 10 points, name this Greek god of archery, music, and light whose twin sister was Artemis",Apollo,Artemis,[ True]
7,".After this god's son brought Hippolytus back to life, Asclepius was killed by Zeus. Along with his sister, he killed Niobe's seven sons. He slew the dragon Python and established the Oracle of Delphi at the place where it died. This son of Leto pursued the nymph (*) Daphne, only for her to turn into a laurel tree. For 10 points, name this Greek god of archery, music, and light whose twin sister was Artemis.",Apollo,Artemis,[ True]
8,".A piano imitates hunting-horns well into the postlude in a piece by this composer depicting a man's walk through a forest and encounter with an evil maiden. This composer incorporated the Marseillaise in his depiction of the death of a French grenadier in one of his songs. This composer had the right hand imitate Bach counterpoint while the left hand imitates three bells, in a song about the reflection of a cathedral in water. This composer wrote twenty-six songs, one for each letter of the alphabet, in his collection (*) Myrtles. In 1840, known as this composer's ""year of song,"" he published a setting of Adalbert de Chamisso's A Woman's Love and Life, and set several poems by Joseph Eichendorff in his op",Robert Schumann,Song_of_Songs,[ True]
9,".A piano imitates hunting-horns well into the postlude in a piece by this composer depicting a man's walk through a forest and encounter with an evil maiden. This composer incorporated the Marseillaise in his depiction of the death of a French grenadier in one of his songs. This composer had the right hand imitate Bach counterpoint while the left hand imitates three bells, in a song about the reflection of a cathedral in water. This composer wrote twenty-six songs, one for each letter of the alphabet, in his collection (*) Myrtles. In 1840, known as this composer's ""year of song,"" he published a setting of Adalbert de Chamisso's A Woman's Love and Life, and set several poems by Joseph Eichendorff in his op. 39 Liederkreis",Robert Schumann,Song_of_Songs,[ True]
10,".A piano imitates hunting-horns well into the postlude in a piece by this composer depicting a man's walk through a forest and encounter with an evil maiden. This composer incorporated the Marseillaise in his depiction of the death of a French grenadier in one of his songs. This composer had the right hand imitate Bach counterpoint while the left hand imitates three bells, in a song about the reflection of a cathedral in water. This composer wrote twenty-six songs, one for each letter of the alphabet, in his collection (*) Myrtles. In 1840, known as this composer's ""year of song,"" he published a setting of Adalbert de Chamisso's A Woman's Love and Life, and set several poems by Joseph Eichendorff in his op. 39 Liederkreis. This composer's choral masterwork is a collection that ends with the poet declaring that he will put his suffering, love, dreams, and bad poems in a huge coffin and cast it out to sea",Robert Schumann,Song_of_Songs,[ True]
11,".A piano imitates hunting-horns well into the postlude in a piece by this composer depicting a man's walk through a forest and encounter with an evil maiden. This composer incorporated the Marseillaise in his depiction of the death of a French grenadier in one of his songs. This composer had the right hand imitate Bach counterpoint while the left hand imitates three bells, in a song about the reflection of a cathedral in water. This composer wrote twenty-six songs, one for each letter of the alphabet, in his collection (*) Myrtles. In 1840, known as this composer's ""year of song,"" he published a setting of Adalbert de Chamisso's A Woman's Love and Life, and set several poems by Joseph Eichendorff in his op. 39 Liederkreis. This composer's choral masterwork is a collection that ends with the poet declaring that he will put his suffering, love, dreams, and bad poems in a huge coffin and cast it out to sea. For 10 points, name this composer who adapted Heinrich Heine's Lyrical Intermezzo in his collection Dichterliebe, and dedicated Myrtles to his wife Clara Wieck",Robert Schumann,Heinrich_Heine,[ True]
12,".A piano imitates hunting-horns well into the postlude in a piece by this composer depicting a man's walk through a forest and encounter with an evil maiden. This composer incorporated the Marseillaise in his depiction of the death of a French grenadier in one of his songs. This composer had the right hand imitate Bach counterpoint while the left hand imitates three bells, in a song about the reflection of a cathedral in water. This composer wrote twenty-six songs, one for each letter of the alphabet, in his collection (*) Myrtles. In 1840, known as this composer's ""year of song,"" he published a setting of Adalbert de Chamisso's A Woman's Love and Life, and set several poems by Joseph Eichendorff in his op. 39 Liederkreis. This composer's choral masterwork is a collection that ends with the poet declaring that he will put his suffering, love, dreams, and bad poems in a huge coffin and cast it out to sea. For 10 points, name this composer who adapted Heinrich Heine's Lyrical Intermezzo in his collection Dichterliebe, and dedicated Myrtles to his wife Clara Wieck.",Robert Schumann,Heinrich_Heine,[ True]
13,".This artist painted himself as the drunken Prodigal Son alongside his wife Saskia. On the right side of one of his works, a woman in red accidentally pours wine onto the ground, while the title king knocks over a wineglass and looks to the right. He depicted Christ healing the sick in the Hundred Guilder Print. This artist included orientalist elements like turbans in works like Belshazzar's Feast. His group portraits include one of the syndics of the draper's guild, which hangs in the Rijksmuseum [""rikes-museum""]. A huge painting by this artist depicts a woman in yellow carrying a chicken and eighteen militiamen in the company of Franz Banning Cocq",Rembrandt [Harmenszoon] van Rijn [or Rembrandt van Rijn],The_Night_Watch,[ True]
14,".This artist painted himself as the drunken Prodigal Son alongside his wife Saskia. On the right side of one of his works, a woman in red accidentally pours wine onto the ground, while the title king knocks over a wineglass and looks to the right. He depicted Christ healing the sick in the Hundred Guilder Print. This artist included orientalist elements like turbans in works like Belshazzar's Feast. His group portraits include one of the syndics of the draper's guild, which hangs in the Rijksmuseum [""rikes-museum""]. A huge painting by this artist depicts a woman in yellow carrying a chicken and eighteen militiamen in the company of Franz Banning Cocq. For 10 points, name this Dutch artist of The Night Watch",Rembrandt [Harmenszoon] van Rijn [or Rembrandt van Rijn],The_Night_Watch,[ True]
15,".This artist painted himself as the drunken Prodigal Son alongside his wife Saskia. On the right side of one of his works, a woman in red accidentally pours wine onto the ground, while the title king knocks over a wineglass and looks to the right. He depicted Christ healing the sick in the Hundred Guilder Print. This artist included orientalist elements like turbans in works like Belshazzar's Feast. His group portraits include one of the syndics of the draper's guild, which hangs in the Rijksmuseum [""rikes-museum""]. A huge painting by this artist depicts a woman in yellow carrying a chicken and eighteen militiamen in the company of Franz Banning Cocq. For 10 points, name this Dutch artist of The Night Watch.",Rembrandt [Harmenszoon] van Rijn [or Rembrandt van Rijn],The_Night_Watch,[ True]
16,".Maarten de Vos painted the holy figures for this artist in his early paintings. A group of Spanish soldiers attack a helpless village in his The Massacre of the Innocents, and the cultivation of a ripe field of wheat is depicted in his The Harvesters. A skeleton army attacks a group of people in one of his paintings, and he painted two figures with a pack of dogs gazing at a village in Hunters in the Snow. In another of his works, a pair of legs flails in the sea below a passing ship",Pieter Bruegel the Elder,Dog,[ True]
17,".Maarten de Vos painted the holy figures for this artist in his early paintings. A group of Spanish soldiers attack a helpless village in his The Massacre of the Innocents, and the cultivation of a ripe field of wheat is depicted in his The Harvesters. A skeleton army attacks a group of people in one of his paintings, and he painted two figures with a pack of dogs gazing at a village in Hunters in the Snow. In another of his works, a pair of legs flails in the sea below a passing ship. For 10 points, name this Flemish artist of The Triumph of Death and Landscape with the Fall of Icarus",Pieter Bruegel the Elder,Dog,[ True]
18,".Maarten de Vos painted the holy figures for this artist in his early paintings. A group of Spanish soldiers attack a helpless village in his The Massacre of the Innocents, and the cultivation of a ripe field of wheat is depicted in his The Harvesters. A skeleton army attacks a group of people in one of his paintings, and he painted two figures with a pack of dogs gazing at a village in Hunters in the Snow. In another of his works, a pair of legs flails in the sea below a passing ship. For 10 points, name this Flemish artist of The Triumph of Death and Landscape with the Fall of Icarus.",Pieter Bruegel the Elder,Dog,[ True]
19,".BHSAT 2008 Round 9  Packet by Ben Colman and Alex Mohapatra,  Tossups  It is believed to correspond with the date on which Moses received the Ten Commandments and may represent forgiveness for the Golden Calf, but it also corresponds to 20 day war in 1973 named for it. Kol Nidre is chanted before the start of this holiday. Bathing and use of perfume are all banned on this day, along with other acts. With Rosh Hashanah it forms the Jewish High Holy Days",{Yom Kippur},Rosh_Hashanah,[ True]
20,".BHSAT 2008 Round 9  Packet by Ben Colman and Alex Mohapatra,  Tossups  It is believed to correspond with the date on which Moses received the Ten Commandments and may represent forgiveness for the Golden Calf, but it also corresponds to 20 day war in 1973 named for it. Kol Nidre is chanted before the start of this holiday. Bathing and use of perfume are all banned on this day, along with other acts. With Rosh Hashanah it forms the Jewish High Holy Days. FTP, name this religious fast, the Jewish Day of Atonement",{Yom Kippur},Rosh_Hashanah,[ True]
21,".BHSAT 2008 Round 9  Packet by Ben Colman and Alex Mohapatra,  Tossups  It is believed to correspond with the date on which Moses received the Ten Commandments and may represent forgiveness for the Golden Calf, but it also corresponds to 20 day war in 1973 named for it. Kol Nidre is chanted before the start of this holiday. Bathing and use of perfume are all banned on this day, along with other acts. With Rosh Hashanah it forms the Jewish High Holy Days. FTP, name this religious fast, the Jewish Day of Atonement.",{Yom Kippur},Rosh_Hashanah,[ True]
22,".Give this character's name as it is in Shakespeare's plays. Like Falstaff, he appears in two of them. In Antony and Cleopatra, he wins a big sea battle, and much of the conflict in the play revolves around Antony's marriage to his sister",Octavius (Caesar),Battle_of_Actium,[ True]
23,".Give this character's name as it is in Shakespeare's plays. Like Falstaff, he appears in two of them. In Antony and Cleopatra, he wins a big sea battle, and much of the conflict in the play revolves around Antony's marriage to his sister. In another play, he says, ""Upon the right hand I; keep thou the left",Octavius (Caesar),Battle_of_Actium,[ True]
24,".Give this character's name as it is in Shakespeare's plays. Like Falstaff, he appears in two of them. In Antony and Cleopatra, he wins a big sea battle, and much of the conflict in the play revolves around Antony's marriage to his sister. In another play, he says, ""Upon the right hand I; keep thou the left."" Name this leader who joins with Marc Antony and Lepidus to form a Triumvirate",Octavius (Caesar),Mark_Antony,[ True]
25,".Give this character's name as it is in Shakespeare's plays. Like Falstaff, he appears in two of them. In Antony and Cleopatra, he wins a big sea battle, and much of the conflict in the play revolves around Antony's marriage to his sister. In another play, he says, ""Upon the right hand I; keep thou the left."" Name this leader who joins with Marc Antony and Lepidus to form a Triumvirate.",Octavius (Caesar),Mark_Antony,[ True]
26,".This character writes his memoirs in an insane asylum as he is being watched by the guard Bruno Munsterberg; his manuscript opens with a description of how his grandparents met when his grandmother hid his grandfather from policemen under her skirt. This character falls in with a gang of criminal youths after his lover Roswitha is killed during the invasion of Normandy. He achieves riches after forming a jazz trio with (*) Klepp and Scholle, but loses everything when he is convicted of murdering Sister Dorothea after finding her severed ring finger",Oskar Matzerath [accept either underlined portion],The_Tin_Drum,[ True]
27,".This character writes his memoirs in an insane asylum as he is being watched by the guard Bruno Munsterberg; his manuscript opens with a description of how his grandparents met when his grandmother hid his grandfather from policemen under her skirt. This character falls in with a gang of criminal youths after his lover Roswitha is killed during the invasion of Normandy. He achieves riches after forming a jazz trio with (*) Klepp and Scholle, but loses everything when he is convicted of murdering Sister Dorothea after finding her severed ring finger. His likely father, Alfred, is shot by the advancing Russian army after swallowing a Nazi party pin",Oskar Matzerath [accept either underlined portion],The_Tin_Drum,[ True]
28,".This character writes his memoirs in an insane asylum as he is being watched by the guard Bruno Munsterberg; his manuscript opens with a description of how his grandparents met when his grandmother hid his grandfather from policemen under her skirt. This character falls in with a gang of criminal youths after his lover Roswitha is killed during the invasion of Normandy. He achieves riches after forming a jazz trio with (*) Klepp and Scholle, but loses everything when he is convicted of murdering Sister Dorothea after finding her severed ring finger. His likely father, Alfred, is shot by the advancing Russian army after swallowing a Nazi party pin. This man, who has a scream that can pierce glass, is a dwarf because he decided to stop growing at the age of three",Oskar Matzerath [accept either underlined portion],The_Tin_Drum,[ True]
29,".This character writes his memoirs in an insane asylum as he is being watched by the guard Bruno Munsterberg; his manuscript opens with a description of how his grandparents met when his grandmother hid his grandfather from policemen under her skirt. This character falls in with a gang of criminal youths after his lover Roswitha is killed during the invasion of Normandy. He achieves riches after forming a jazz trio with (*) Klepp and Scholle, but loses everything when he is convicted of murdering Sister Dorothea after finding her severed ring finger. His likely father, Alfred, is shot by the advancing Russian army after swallowing a Nazi party pin. This man, who has a scream that can pierce glass, is a dwarf because he decided to stop growing at the age of three. For 10 points, name this protagonist of Gunter Grass's novel The Tin Drum",Oskar Matzerath [accept either underlined portion],The_Tin_Drum,[ True]
30,".This character writes his memoirs in an insane asylum as he is being watched by the guard Bruno Munsterberg; his manuscript opens with a description of how his grandparents met when his grandmother hid his grandfather from policemen under her skirt. This character falls in with a gang of criminal youths after his lover Roswitha is killed during the invasion of Normandy. He achieves riches after forming a jazz trio with (*) Klepp and Scholle, but loses everything when he is convicted of murdering Sister Dorothea after finding her severed ring finger. His likely father, Alfred, is shot by the advancing Russian army after swallowing a Nazi party pin. This man, who has a scream that can pierce glass, is a dwarf because he decided to stop growing at the age of three. For 10 points, name this protagonist of Gunter Grass's novel The Tin Drum.",Oskar Matzerath [accept either underlined portion],The_Tin_Drum,[ True]
31,".This artist painted his Moorish servant, Juan de Pareja, in preparation for a painting of a man in red sitting on a golden throne. Another of his works shows an array of lances in the top right-hand corner and Ambrosio de Spinola receiving a key from Justin Nassau. This painter of The Surrender of Breda and Portrait of Innocent X also depicted himself painting in the background of another work, in which dwarves and servants play with the Infanta Margarita. For 10 points, name this Spanish artist of Las Meninas",Diego Rodríguez de Silva y {Velázquez},Las_Meninas,[ True]
32,".This artist painted his Moorish servant, Juan de Pareja, in preparation for a painting of a man in red sitting on a golden throne. Another of his works shows an array of lances in the top right-hand corner and Ambrosio de Spinola receiving a key from Justin Nassau. This painter of The Surrender of Breda and Portrait of Innocent X also depicted himself painting in the background of another work, in which dwarves and servants play with the Infanta Margarita. For 10 points, name this Spanish artist of Las Meninas.",Diego Rodríguez de Silva y {Velázquez},Las_Meninas,[ True]
33,.Composers who wrote studies for this instrument include Carl Czerny and Muzio Clementi. The only piece in Carnival of the Animals not describing animals instead depicts two people playing scales on this instrument,{piano},The_Carnival_of_the_Animals,[ True]
34,".Composers who wrote studies for this instrument include Carl Czerny and Muzio Clementi. The only piece in Carnival of the Animals not describing animals instead depicts two people playing scales on this instrument. John Cage inserted various objects to produce the ""prepared"" type of this instrument",{piano},John_Cage,[ True]
35,".Composers who wrote studies for this instrument include Carl Czerny and Muzio Clementi. The only piece in Carnival of the Animals not describing animals instead depicts two people playing scales on this instrument. John Cage inserted various objects to produce the ""prepared"" type of this instrument. Four concertos were written for this instrument by Sergei Rachmaninoff.  Among the many works for this instrument by Frederic Chopin are his Funeral March and ""Black Key"" Etude. For 10 points, name this keyboard instrument with 88 keys.",{piano},Sergei_Rachmaninoff,[ True]
36,".This artist's early style was influenced by Russian expressionism and cubism, as seen in Candles in the Dark",Marc Chagall,Cubism,[ True]
37,".One episode in this work revolves around a drunken car accident, after which one man attempts to find a gasoline station and the other announces he knows nothing about driving or mechanics.  One of those men was earlier observed in the library of a large mansion during a party, and is referred to by the narrator as ""Owl Eyes"".  Another character in this novel discusses the night that Rosy Rosenthal was murdered outside the Metropole before showing the protagonist his cufflinks made from human molars, and is later revealed to have fixed the 1919 World Series",The {Great Gatsby},Invisible_Man,[ True]
38,".One episode in this work revolves around a drunken car accident, after which one man attempts to find a gasoline station and the other announces he knows nothing about driving or mechanics.  One of those men was earlier observed in the library of a large mansion during a party, and is referred to by the narrator as ""Owl Eyes"".  Another character in this novel discusses the night that Rosy Rosenthal was murdered outside the Metropole before showing the protagonist his cufflinks made from human molars, and is later revealed to have fixed the 1919 World Series.  For 10 points, name this work about an apprentice of Dan Cody, which features characters such as Meyer Wolfsheim, Dr",The {Great Gatsby},Invisible_Man,[ True]
39,".One episode in this work revolves around a drunken car accident, after which one man attempts to find a gasoline station and the other announces he knows nothing about driving or mechanics.  One of those men was earlier observed in the library of a large mansion during a party, and is referred to by the narrator as ""Owl Eyes"".  Another character in this novel discusses the night that Rosy Rosenthal was murdered outside the Metropole before showing the protagonist his cufflinks made from human molars, and is later revealed to have fixed the 1919 World Series.  For 10 points, name this work about an apprentice of Dan Cody, which features characters such as Meyer Wolfsheim, Dr. T",The {Great Gatsby},Invisible_Man,[ True]
40,".One episode in this work revolves around a drunken car accident, after which one man attempts to find a gasoline station and the other announces he knows nothing about driving or mechanics.  One of those men was earlier observed in the library of a large mansion during a party, and is referred to by the narrator as ""Owl Eyes"".  Another character in this novel discusses the night that Rosy Rosenthal was murdered outside the Metropole before showing the protagonist his cufflinks made from human molars, and is later revealed to have fixed the 1919 World Series.  For 10 points, name this work about an apprentice of Dan Cody, which features characters such as Meyer Wolfsheim, Dr. T.J",The {Great Gatsby},Invisible_Man,[ True]
41,".This author featured the Saint Bartholomew's Day Massacre and the Duke of Guise in his historical work The Massacre at Paris, and he dramatized Piers Galveston and the title king in Edward II. This author wrote a work in which Ithamore betrays the title character, leaving him to defend the title location from an army of Turks. This author wrote a poem in which the narrator notes ""we will all the pleasures prove"" if the addressee would ""come live with me and be my love."" The author of ""The Passionate Shepherd to His Love,"" for 10 points, identify this Elizabethan author of The Jew of Malta and Doctor Faustus",Christopher {Marlowe},The_Jew_of_Malta,[ True]
42,".This author featured the Saint Bartholomew's Day Massacre and the Duke of Guise in his historical work The Massacre at Paris, and he dramatized Piers Galveston and the title king in Edward II. This author wrote a work in which Ithamore betrays the title character, leaving him to defend the title location from an army of Turks. This author wrote a poem in which the narrator notes ""we will all the pleasures prove"" if the addressee would ""come live with me and be my love."" The author of ""The Passionate Shepherd to His Love,"" for 10 points, identify this Elizabethan author of The Jew of Malta and Doctor Faustus.",Christopher {Marlowe},The_Jew_of_Malta,[ True]
43,".Ptolemy's Kattigara is thought to correspond to a site in this country whose name means ""glass canal."" The northern part of what is now this country was home to some of the Yue people. This country contains the site of Oc Eo, which is thought to be a later capital of the Funan kingdom. Emperor Zhenzong of Song was sent rice that allowed two harvests as tribute from a kingdom in what is now this country, where General Ma Yuan was dispatched to put down a (*) rebellion",Socialist Republic of Vietnam [or Cong hoa Xa hoi chu nghia Viet Nam],Song_dynasty,[ True]
44,".Ptolemy's Kattigara is thought to correspond to a site in this country whose name means ""glass canal."" The northern part of what is now this country was home to some of the Yue people. This country contains the site of Oc Eo, which is thought to be a later capital of the Funan kingdom. Emperor Zhenzong of Song was sent rice that allowed two harvests as tribute from a kingdom in what is now this country, where General Ma Yuan was dispatched to put down a (*) rebellion. That rebellion's leaders are typically depicted riding side by side on elephants while fighting against the forces of the Han dynasty, which was responsible for killing one of their husbands",Socialist Republic of Vietnam [or Cong hoa Xa hoi chu nghia Viet Nam],Han_Dynasty,[ True]
45,".Ptolemy's Kattigara is thought to correspond to a site in this country whose name means ""glass canal."" The northern part of what is now this country was home to some of the Yue people. This country contains the site of Oc Eo, which is thought to be a later capital of the Funan kingdom. Emperor Zhenzong of Song was sent rice that allowed two harvests as tribute from a kingdom in what is now this country, where General Ma Yuan was dispatched to put down a (*) rebellion. That rebellion's leaders are typically depicted riding side by side on elephants while fighting against the forces of the Han dynasty, which was responsible for killing one of their husbands. For 10 points, name this modern-day country home to the Trung sisters, who repelled the Chinese from what is now Hanoi",Socialist Republic of Vietnam [or Cong hoa Xa hoi chu nghia Viet Nam],Han_Dynasty,[ True]
46,".Ptolemy's Kattigara is thought to correspond to a site in this country whose name means ""glass canal."" The northern part of what is now this country was home to some of the Yue people. This country contains the site of Oc Eo, which is thought to be a later capital of the Funan kingdom. Emperor Zhenzong of Song was sent rice that allowed two harvests as tribute from a kingdom in what is now this country, where General Ma Yuan was dispatched to put down a (*) rebellion. That rebellion's leaders are typically depicted riding side by side on elephants while fighting against the forces of the Han dynasty, which was responsible for killing one of their husbands. For 10 points, name this modern-day country home to the Trung sisters, who repelled the Chinese from what is now Hanoi.",Socialist Republic of Vietnam [or Cong hoa Xa hoi chu nghia Viet Nam],Han_Dynasty,[ True]
47,".In one work, this thinker differentiates between a figure who ""considers what belongs to their proper natures"" and a figure who ""considers only what is true of creatures insofar as they are related to God.""That same work by him differentiates between truths which appeal to natural reason and divine truths which do not. In his most famous work, he refers to St. Augustine as ""The Theologian"" and discusses the concept of (*) God as the first mover. Also the author of Summa Contra Gentiles, this is, for 10 points, which Scholastic philosopher who put forth his five proofs for the existence of God in his Summa Theologica?",Saint Thomas {Aquinas},Summa_Theologica,[ True]
48,".This composer wrote a Serenade for Strings whose first movement is similar in style to Mozart and whose second movement is written in ""Tempo di valse."" This composer included Serbian folk songs in his Marche Slave [""slav""]. One of this composer's ballets has the sorcerer Von Rothbart cast a spell on (*) Odette to make her turn into a bird at day.  Another of his ballets includes a Trepak, and the Mouse King dies before the Dance of the Sugar Plum Fairy and the Waltz of the Flowers is performed.  For 10 points, name the composer of the ballets Swan Lake and The Nutcracker",Pyotr Ilyich {Tchaikovsky},Swan_Lake,[ True]
49,".This composer wrote a Serenade for Strings whose first movement is similar in style to Mozart and whose second movement is written in ""Tempo di valse."" This composer included Serbian folk songs in his Marche Slave [""slav""]. One of this composer's ballets has the sorcerer Von Rothbart cast a spell on (*) Odette to make her turn into a bird at day.  Another of his ballets includes a Trepak, and the Mouse King dies before the Dance of the Sugar Plum Fairy and the Waltz of the Flowers is performed.  For 10 points, name the composer of the ballets Swan Lake and The Nutcracker.",Pyotr Ilyich {Tchaikovsky},Swan_Lake,[ True]
50,".A quantum analog of one formula named for this man is named for Ehrenfest (AIR-en-fest). Interference patterns due to an air film between a lens and a glass are called this man's ""rings."" Another law named for this man is also called the law of inertia, while a third law is often summarized as saying that for every action, there is an equal and opposite reaction. For 10 points, name this British physicist whose three laws of motion include the equation F equals m a",Sir Isaac {Newton},Newton's_laws_of_motion,[ True]
51,".A quantum analog of one formula named for this man is named for Ehrenfest (AIR-en-fest). Interference patterns due to an air film between a lens and a glass are called this man's ""rings."" Another law named for this man is also called the law of inertia, while a third law is often summarized as saying that for every action, there is an equal and opposite reaction. For 10 points, name this British physicist whose three laws of motion include the equation F equals m a.",Sir Isaac {Newton},Newton's_laws_of_motion,[ True]
52,".Monroe Stahr, Rosemary Hoyt, Amory Blaine, Mr. Barlow, and Dick Diver are lesser-known characters created by this author. Other, more well-known characters of his creation include Myrtle Wilson, Daisy Buchanan, and the man once known as Jay Gatz",F. Scott {Fitzgerald},James_G._Blaine,[ True]
53,".Monroe Stahr, Rosemary Hoyt, Amory Blaine, Mr. Barlow, and Dick Diver are lesser-known characters created by this author. Other, more well-known characters of his creation include Myrtle Wilson, Daisy Buchanan, and the man once known as Jay Gatz. For 10 points, identify this ""jazz-age"" author of Tender is the Night and The Great Gatsby",F. Scott {Fitzgerald},The_Great_Gatsby,[ True]
54,".Monroe Stahr, Rosemary Hoyt, Amory Blaine, Mr. Barlow, and Dick Diver are lesser-known characters created by this author. Other, more well-known characters of his creation include Myrtle Wilson, Daisy Buchanan, and the man once known as Jay Gatz. For 10 points, identify this ""jazz-age"" author of Tender is the Night and The Great Gatsby.",F. Scott {Fitzgerald},The_Great_Gatsby,[ True]
55,.Benedetto Marcello's Il Teatro Alla Moda was published under a pseudonym constructed from this composer's name,Antonio (Lucio) Vivaldi,La_bohème,[ True]
56,".Benedetto Marcello's Il Teatro Alla Moda was published under a pseudonym constructed from this composer's name. This man composed a set of violin concertos named after the lyre-like cetra. This man also composed concerto collections titled La Stravaganza and L'estro Armonico. This composer of a concerto for the mandolin wrote an oratorio in which Holofernes is beheaded; that is Juditha Triumphans. The Contest Between Harmony and Invention includes his most well known work, a set of four violin concerti. For 10 points, identify this man known as the ""Red Priest,"" the composer of the concerti ""Spring,"" ""Summer,"" ""Autumn,"" and ""Winter"" that make up his Four Seasons.",Antonio (Lucio) Vivaldi,Violin_concerto,[ True]
57,".Especially good solvents for this procedure include carbon disulfide and carbon tetrachloride, though both are highly toxic. For testing coatings and powders, this technique can be used with attenuated total reflectance. Liquids are placed between two salt plates as preparation for this technique, while solid compounds are ground in combination with (*) potassium bromide and pressed into a thin disc. This technique relies on stimulating the vibrational modes of molecules. The output from this technique is a plot of transmittance versus wavenumber in inverse centimeters and includes a ""fingerprint"" for each molecule. For 10 points, name this common lab technique for identifying functional groups in molecules using radiation wavelengths just longer than visible light",{IR Spectroscopy},Carbon,[ True]
58,".Especially good solvents for this procedure include carbon disulfide and carbon tetrachloride, though both are highly toxic. For testing coatings and powders, this technique can be used with attenuated total reflectance. Liquids are placed between two salt plates as preparation for this technique, while solid compounds are ground in combination with (*) potassium bromide and pressed into a thin disc. This technique relies on stimulating the vibrational modes of molecules. The output from this technique is a plot of transmittance versus wavenumber in inverse centimeters and includes a ""fingerprint"" for each molecule. For 10 points, name this common lab technique for identifying functional groups in molecules using radiation wavelengths just longer than visible light.",{IR Spectroscopy},Carbon,[ True]
59,".This person wrote that ""if prophecies of living birds are ever truthful, I shall be living, always."" He wrote of two children of Aeolus [ay-OE-lus] having an incestuous relationship in one section of his Heroides [heh-ROE-ih-dees]",Ovid (accept Publius Ovidius Naso),Roe_v._Wade,[ True]
60,".This person wrote that ""if prophecies of living birds are ever truthful, I shall be living, always."" He wrote of two children of Aeolus [ay-OE-lus] having an incestuous relationship in one section of his Heroides [heh-ROE-ih-dees]. In one of this writer's poems, the speaker compares himself to Tiphys [TIH-fis] and Automedon [ow-toe-MEH-don]",Ovid (accept Publius Ovidius Naso),Roe_v._Wade,[ True]
61,".This person wrote that ""if prophecies of living birds are ever truthful, I shall be living, always."" He wrote of two children of Aeolus [ay-OE-lus] having an incestuous relationship in one section of his Heroides [heh-ROE-ih-dees]. In one of this writer's poems, the speaker compares himself to Tiphys [TIH-fis] and Automedon [ow-toe-MEH-don]. He advocated seducing a maid to advance cause with a lady in Art of Love",Ovid (accept Publius Ovidius Naso),Roe_v._Wade,[ True]
62,".This person wrote that ""if prophecies of living birds are ever truthful, I shall be living, always."" He wrote of two children of Aeolus [ay-OE-lus] having an incestuous relationship in one section of his Heroides [heh-ROE-ih-dees]. In one of this writer's poems, the speaker compares himself to Tiphys [TIH-fis] and Automedon [ow-toe-MEH-don]. He advocated seducing a maid to advance cause with a lady in Art of Love. Name this author of the Metamorphoses",Ovid (accept Publius Ovidius Naso),Roe_v._Wade,[ True]
63,".This person wrote that ""if prophecies of living birds are ever truthful, I shall be living, always."" He wrote of two children of Aeolus [ay-OE-lus] having an incestuous relationship in one section of his Heroides [heh-ROE-ih-dees]. In one of this writer's poems, the speaker compares himself to Tiphys [TIH-fis] and Automedon [ow-toe-MEH-don]. He advocated seducing a maid to advance cause with a lady in Art of Love. Name this author of the Metamorphoses.",Ovid (accept Publius Ovidius Naso),Roe_v._Wade,[ True]
64,".Measurements can be transformed in this theory using Lorentz transformations. This theory was proposed in a 1905 paper, the same year in which its formulator proposed theories to explain capillary action and Brownian motion. The underlying principle of this theory is that the speed of (*) light is the same for all reference frames, allowing one to derive that energy equals mass times the speed of light squared. For 10 points, name this theory proposed by Einstein that is contrasted with a ""general"" counterpart.","{special relativity} [prompt on relativity; do not accept ""general relativity""]",Speed_of_light,[ True]
65,".In one of this author's novels, the narrator admires the gambler Hat, and tells of the carpenter Popo who never builds anything useful and the poet B. Wordsworth who is still working on the first line of his epic poem. In addition to Miguel Street, this author wrote about Salim, who opens a shop across from a Big Burger franchise in a country ruled by the Big Man. In another novel, this author wrote about a six fingered journalist who is tricked into marrying into the Tulsi family while working as a sign painter. For 10 points, name this Trinidadian author of A House for Mr. Biswas and A Bend in the River",Vidiadhar Surajprasad Naipaul,A_House_for_Mr_Biswas,[ True]
66,".In one of this author's novels, the narrator admires the gambler Hat, and tells of the carpenter Popo who never builds anything useful and the poet B. Wordsworth who is still working on the first line of his epic poem. In addition to Miguel Street, this author wrote about Salim, who opens a shop across from a Big Burger franchise in a country ruled by the Big Man. In another novel, this author wrote about a six fingered journalist who is tricked into marrying into the Tulsi family while working as a sign painter. For 10 points, name this Trinidadian author of A House for Mr. Biswas and A Bend in the River.",Vidiadhar Surajprasad Naipaul,A_House_for_Mr_Biswas,[ True]
67,".In one story by this author, an army officer wipes out two enemy divisions by accidentally starting a stampede of twenty-three hundred mules. In another story, a maker of medicinal ointments discovers the quality of his product improves when his son changes the main ingredient from stray dogs to unwanted children. In addition to  ""Jupiter Doke, Brigadier-General"" and ""Oil of Dog,"" this writer described ‘peace' as ""a period of cheating between two periods of fighting"" in a compilation titled The Devil's Dictionary. For 10 points, name this author who wrote of Peyton Farquhar mistakenly thinking he escaped his own execution in ""An Occurrence at Owl Creek Bridge",Ambrose Bierce,Dog,[ True]
68,".In one story by this author, an army officer wipes out two enemy divisions by accidentally starting a stampede of twenty-three hundred mules. In another story, a maker of medicinal ointments discovers the quality of his product improves when his son changes the main ingredient from stray dogs to unwanted children. In addition to  ""Jupiter Doke, Brigadier-General"" and ""Oil of Dog,"" this writer described ‘peace' as ""a period of cheating between two periods of fighting"" in a compilation titled The Devil's Dictionary. For 10 points, name this author who wrote of Peyton Farquhar mistakenly thinking he escaped his own execution in ""An Occurrence at Owl Creek Bridge.""",Ambrose Bierce,Dog,[ True]
69,".The volume of a simplex in n dimensions can be given by the Cayley-Menger type of this function, and this function can be generalized to non-square entities using the Cauchy Binet formula. The linear independence of a set of solutions to a differential equation is given by a nonzero value for the Wronskian type of this, and changing variables when integrating a function over its domain involves the use of the Jacobian type of this function. One of these for a two-by-two matrix is used in Cramer's rule to find the solution to a system of two equations. For 10 points, name this scalar function of a square matrix, denoted by single or double bars around a matrix",determinant [prompt on det],MATRIX,[ True]
70,".The volume of a simplex in n dimensions can be given by the Cayley-Menger type of this function, and this function can be generalized to non-square entities using the Cauchy Binet formula. The linear independence of a set of solutions to a differential equation is given by a nonzero value for the Wronskian type of this, and changing variables when integrating a function over its domain involves the use of the Jacobian type of this function. One of these for a two-by-two matrix is used in Cramer's rule to find the solution to a system of two equations. For 10 points, name this scalar function of a square matrix, denoted by single or double bars around a matrix.",determinant [prompt on det],MATRIX,[ True]
71,".This religion's texts include the Holy Piby, and one of this religion's saints is Marcus Garvey. This religion advocates ""livity,"" which involves drumming ceremonies called bingis. This religion uses the vegetarian I-tal diet. Followers of this religion believe that they are captives in Babylon. This religion draws its name from the belief that Haile Selassie is the Second Coming of Christ",Rastafarianism,Haile_Selassie,[ True]
72,".This religion's texts include the Holy Piby, and one of this religion's saints is Marcus Garvey. This religion advocates ""livity,"" which involves drumming ceremonies called bingis. This religion uses the vegetarian I-tal diet. Followers of this religion believe that they are captives in Babylon. This religion draws its name from the belief that Haile Selassie is the Second Coming of Christ. It promotes wearing the colors red, green, gold, and black, along with dreadlocks",Rastafarianism,Haile_Selassie,[ True]
73,".This religion's texts include the Holy Piby, and one of this religion's saints is Marcus Garvey. This religion advocates ""livity,"" which involves drumming ceremonies called bingis. This religion uses the vegetarian I-tal diet. Followers of this religion believe that they are captives in Babylon. This religion draws its name from the belief that Haile Selassie is the Second Coming of Christ. It promotes wearing the colors red, green, gold, and black, along with dreadlocks. For 10 points, name this Jamaican religion that advocates using ganja for meditation and was the inspiration for reggae music",Rastafarianism,Haile_Selassie,[ True]
74,".This religion's texts include the Holy Piby, and one of this religion's saints is Marcus Garvey. This religion advocates ""livity,"" which involves drumming ceremonies called bingis. This religion uses the vegetarian I-tal diet. Followers of this religion believe that they are captives in Babylon. This religion draws its name from the belief that Haile Selassie is the Second Coming of Christ. It promotes wearing the colors red, green, gold, and black, along with dreadlocks. For 10 points, name this Jamaican religion that advocates using ganja for meditation and was the inspiration for reggae music.",Rastafarianism,Haile_Selassie,[ True]
75,".By using this substance as a mask, Tour et al. discovered a method for creating graphene nanoribbons called meniscus-mask lithography. This substance has a resistivity of 18.2 million ohm-centimeters",water [or H2O before mention],Ohm's_law,[ True]
76,".By using this substance as a mask, Tour et al. discovered a method for creating graphene nanoribbons called meniscus-mask lithography. This substance has a resistivity of 18.2 million ohm-centimeters. In molecular biology, this substance is often treated with D-E-P-C to inactivate nucleases",water [or H2O before mention],Ohm's_law,[ True]
77,".By using this substance as a mask, Tour et al. discovered a method for creating graphene nanoribbons called meniscus-mask lithography. This substance has a resistivity of 18.2 million ohm-centimeters. In molecular biology, this substance is often treated with D-E-P-C to inactivate nucleases. The region of stability of this substance is marked out using green lines in a Pourbaix (poor-BAY) diagram",water [or H2O before mention],Ohm's_law,[ True]
78,".By using this substance as a mask, Tour et al. discovered a method for creating graphene nanoribbons called meniscus-mask lithography. This substance has a resistivity of 18.2 million ohm-centimeters. In molecular biology, this substance is often treated with D-E-P-C to inactivate nucleases. The region of stability of this substance is marked out using green lines in a Pourbaix (poor-BAY) diagram. So-called ""wires"" of this substance are able to traverse cell (*) membranes",water [or H2O before mention],Ohm's_law,[ True]
79,".By using this substance as a mask, Tour et al. discovered a method for creating graphene nanoribbons called meniscus-mask lithography. This substance has a resistivity of 18.2 million ohm-centimeters. In molecular biology, this substance is often treated with D-E-P-C to inactivate nucleases. The region of stability of this substance is marked out using green lines in a Pourbaix (poor-BAY) diagram. So-called ""wires"" of this substance are able to traverse cell (*) membranes. The aforementioned resistivity of this substance is displayed on lab-scale Milli Q machines for dispensing the deionized form of this substance",water [or H2O before mention],Ohm's_law,[ True]
80,".By using this substance as a mask, Tour et al. discovered a method for creating graphene nanoribbons called meniscus-mask lithography. This substance has a resistivity of 18.2 million ohm-centimeters. In molecular biology, this substance is often treated with D-E-P-C to inactivate nucleases. The region of stability of this substance is marked out using green lines in a Pourbaix (poor-BAY) diagram. So-called ""wires"" of this substance are able to traverse cell (*) membranes. The aforementioned resistivity of this substance is displayed on lab-scale Milli Q machines for dispensing the deionized form of this substance. This substance has its maximum density at 4 degrees Celsius, and through extensive hydrogen bonding its boiling point is raised to 100 C",water [or H2O before mention],Avogadro_constant,[ True]
81,".By using this substance as a mask, Tour et al. discovered a method for creating graphene nanoribbons called meniscus-mask lithography. This substance has a resistivity of 18.2 million ohm-centimeters. In molecular biology, this substance is often treated with D-E-P-C to inactivate nucleases. The region of stability of this substance is marked out using green lines in a Pourbaix (poor-BAY) diagram. So-called ""wires"" of this substance are able to traverse cell (*) membranes. The aforementioned resistivity of this substance is displayed on lab-scale Milli Q machines for dispensing the deionized form of this substance. This substance has its maximum density at 4 degrees Celsius, and through extensive hydrogen bonding its boiling point is raised to 100 C. For 10 points, name this universal solvent, with formula H2O",water [or H2O before mention],Avogadro_constant,[ True]
82,".By using this substance as a mask, Tour et al. discovered a method for creating graphene nanoribbons called meniscus-mask lithography. This substance has a resistivity of 18.2 million ohm-centimeters. In molecular biology, this substance is often treated with D-E-P-C to inactivate nucleases. The region of stability of this substance is marked out using green lines in a Pourbaix (poor-BAY) diagram. So-called ""wires"" of this substance are able to traverse cell (*) membranes. The aforementioned resistivity of this substance is displayed on lab-scale Milli Q machines for dispensing the deionized form of this substance. This substance has its maximum density at 4 degrees Celsius, and through extensive hydrogen bonding its boiling point is raised to 100 C. For 10 points, name this universal solvent, with formula H2O.",water [or H2O before mention],Avogadro_constant,[ True]
83,".One of this man's protagonists holds canasta parties with a lesbian who later reveals a secret that prompts a character to attempt suicide by drinking methanol. One of this author's characters is given a copy of League of the Divine Wind by a youth who later assassinates the capitalist Kurahara. One of this author's protagonists sees a trio of moles on the bodies of the Thai princess Ying Chan, the orphan Toru, and the ultranationalist Isao, all of whom are thought to be (*) reincarnations of Kiyoaki. He created Shigekuni Honda, who appears in such novels as Runaway Horses and Spring Snow. This founder of the Tatenokai committed seppuku after a failed 1970 coup. For 10 points, name this author of the Sea of Fertility tetralogy, a Japanese novelist who also penned The Temple of the Golden Pavilion.",Yukio Mishima [or Kimitake Hiraoka; accept names in either order],Thailand,[ True]
84,".In one novel set in this country, boats laden with straw dummies feign an attack to steal enemy arrows for reuse.  Another novel set in this country features a talking stone in its preface",China [or People's Republic of China],Snow_Country,[ True]
85,".In one novel set in this country, boats laden with straw dummies feign an attack to steal enemy arrows for reuse.  Another novel set in this country features a talking stone in its preface. The Oath of the Peach Garden occurs in one novel set in this country, which was also the setting of a novel in which one hundred and eight outlaws stow away in a marsh. A Buddhist monk's travels with the Monkey King make up another of its ""Four Classical Novels."" For 10 points, name this country, the setting of Water Margin, Journey to the West, and Romance of the Three Kingdoms.",China [or People's Republic of China],Water_Margin,[ True]
86,".Henry James' ""Paste"" was drawn directly from one of this man's more famous works.  His best novel features two competing brothers, whose tumultuous relationship culminates with one's marriage to Madame Rosemilly.  After publishing a work in the collection The Parties at Medan, he went on to write such novels as A Woman's Life, Bel-ami and Pierre et Jean.  FTP, name this writer best known for his stories of Norman peasant life as in ""A Piece of String"" and ""The Necklace",Guy de Maupassant,The_Necklace,[ True]
87,".Henry James' ""Paste"" was drawn directly from one of this man's more famous works.  His best novel features two competing brothers, whose tumultuous relationship culminates with one's marriage to Madame Rosemilly.  After publishing a work in the collection The Parties at Medan, he went on to write such novels as A Woman's Life, Bel-ami and Pierre et Jean.  FTP, name this writer best known for his stories of Norman peasant life as in ""A Piece of String"" and ""The Necklace.""",Guy de Maupassant,The_Necklace,[ True]
88,".This quantity can be calculated by taking the nuclear charge and dividing it by the square of the covalent radius. Another way to calculate this property involves calculating the square root of three types of bond dissociation energies. This property is often calculated as the average (*) of electron affinity and the first ionization energy. It is calculated by the Mullikan Scale, and francium has the lowest value for this property. It was first proposed by Linus Pauling, who gave fluorine a value of 4",{electronegativity},Linus_Pauling,[ True]
89,".This quantity can be calculated by taking the nuclear charge and dividing it by the square of the covalent radius. Another way to calculate this property involves calculating the square root of three types of bond dissociation energies. This property is often calculated as the average (*) of electron affinity and the first ionization energy. It is calculated by the Mullikan Scale, and francium has the lowest value for this property. It was first proposed by Linus Pauling, who gave fluorine a value of 4.0",{electronegativity},Linus_Pauling,[ True]
90,".This quantity can be calculated by taking the nuclear charge and dividing it by the square of the covalent radius. Another way to calculate this property involves calculating the square root of three types of bond dissociation energies. This property is often calculated as the average (*) of electron affinity and the first ionization energy. It is calculated by the Mullikan Scale, and francium has the lowest value for this property. It was first proposed by Linus Pauling, who gave fluorine a value of 4.0. For 10 points, name this tendency of an atom to attract electrons toward itself in a covalent bond",{electronegativity},Linus_Pauling,[ True]
91,".This quantity can be calculated by taking the nuclear charge and dividing it by the square of the covalent radius. Another way to calculate this property involves calculating the square root of three types of bond dissociation energies. This property is often calculated as the average (*) of electron affinity and the first ionization energy. It is calculated by the Mullikan Scale, and francium has the lowest value for this property. It was first proposed by Linus Pauling, who gave fluorine a value of 4.0. For 10 points, name this tendency of an atom to attract electrons toward itself in a covalent bond.",{electronegativity},Linus_Pauling,[ True]
92,".Collisions reduce the magnitude of one result caused by this phenomenon in the Dicke Effect. Observations of small changes in this phenomenon are likely evidence of the existence of an exoplanet. A star's temperature can be estimated thanks to this effect's widening of spectral lines. For light, this phenomenon causes a fractional change equal to the difference in two velocities divided by c. Depending on which direction a star is moving, this effect can cause either redshift or blueshift",Doppler effect/shift,Hubble's_law,[ True]
93,".A medieval legend about this figure saw him take a dog that would float, a cat that would purify the air and a cock that would crow when it was day undersea with him in a glass sphere so that he wouldn't drown. His sister, after losing the plant of immortal life, jumps overboard and is transformed into a mermaid at the bottom of the sea; that sister, later known as Gorgona, will destroy sailors during a storm if they do not acknowledge he still rules the world. Sometimes called ""The Two Horned One"", in Arabic traditions he was said to be a son of Darab",{Alexander} the {Great},Arabic,[ True]
94,".A medieval legend about this figure saw him take a dog that would float, a cat that would purify the air and a cock that would crow when it was day undersea with him in a glass sphere so that he wouldn't drown. His sister, after losing the plant of immortal life, jumps overboard and is transformed into a mermaid at the bottom of the sea; that sister, later known as Gorgona, will destroy sailors during a storm if they do not acknowledge he still rules the world. Sometimes called ""The Two Horned One"", in Arabic traditions he was said to be a son of Darab. In Christian traditions, he supposedly entered into Heaven by grabbing on to some griffins",{Alexander} the {Great},Arabic,[ True]
95,".A medieval legend about this figure saw him take a dog that would float, a cat that would purify the air and a cock that would crow when it was day undersea with him in a glass sphere so that he wouldn't drown. His sister, after losing the plant of immortal life, jumps overboard and is transformed into a mermaid at the bottom of the sea; that sister, later known as Gorgona, will destroy sailors during a storm if they do not acknowledge he still rules the world. Sometimes called ""The Two Horned One"", in Arabic traditions he was said to be a son of Darab. In Christian traditions, he supposedly entered into Heaven by grabbing on to some griffins. Another legend about this figure sees him being shown a basalt statue of his alleged father Nectanebo, and in some accounts he pulled a pin out of a relic residing in Telmissus in Phrygia",{Alexander} the {Great},Arabic,[ True]
96,".A medieval legend about this figure saw him take a dog that would float, a cat that would purify the air and a cock that would crow when it was day undersea with him in a glass sphere so that he wouldn't drown. His sister, after losing the plant of immortal life, jumps overboard and is transformed into a mermaid at the bottom of the sea; that sister, later known as Gorgona, will destroy sailors during a storm if they do not acknowledge he still rules the world. Sometimes called ""The Two Horned One"", in Arabic traditions he was said to be a son of Darab. In Christian traditions, he supposedly entered into Heaven by grabbing on to some griffins. Another legend about this figure sees him being shown a basalt statue of his alleged father Nectanebo, and in some accounts he pulled a pin out of a relic residing in Telmissus in Phrygia. For 10 points, name this historical figure who legendarily cut the Gordian Knot",{Alexander} the {Great},Arabic,[ True]
97,".A medieval legend about this figure saw him take a dog that would float, a cat that would purify the air and a cock that would crow when it was day undersea with him in a glass sphere so that he wouldn't drown. His sister, after losing the plant of immortal life, jumps overboard and is transformed into a mermaid at the bottom of the sea; that sister, later known as Gorgona, will destroy sailors during a storm if they do not acknowledge he still rules the world. Sometimes called ""The Two Horned One"", in Arabic traditions he was said to be a son of Darab. In Christian traditions, he supposedly entered into Heaven by grabbing on to some griffins. Another legend about this figure sees him being shown a basalt statue of his alleged father Nectanebo, and in some accounts he pulled a pin out of a relic residing in Telmissus in Phrygia. For 10 points, name this historical figure who legendarily cut the Gordian Knot.",{Alexander} the {Great},Arabic,[ True]
98,".This man employed such officials as the poet Paul the Silentiary, and a notable account of his reign was written by Agathias. He ended the Lazic War by dispatching his envoy Peter the Patrician, and during his reign, Totila was slain at the Battle of Taginae. This man ordered the officer Mundus to attack the supporters of Anastasius' nephew, (*) Hypatius. This monarch, a supporter of the ""Blues"" faction of chariot racing enthusiasts, employed such scholars as Tribonian, who helped to compile the legislative collection Corpus juris civilis. This husband of Theodora was the target of the Nika riots and the ruler who dispatched his general Belisarius to retake Western Roman lands. For 10 points, name this Byzantine ruler who built the Hagia Sophia","Justinian I [or Justinian the Great; prompt on ""Justinian""]",Hagia_Sophia,[ True]
99,".This man employed such officials as the poet Paul the Silentiary, and a notable account of his reign was written by Agathias. He ended the Lazic War by dispatching his envoy Peter the Patrician, and during his reign, Totila was slain at the Battle of Taginae. This man ordered the officer Mundus to attack the supporters of Anastasius' nephew, (*) Hypatius. This monarch, a supporter of the ""Blues"" faction of chariot racing enthusiasts, employed such scholars as Tribonian, who helped to compile the legislative collection Corpus juris civilis. This husband of Theodora was the target of the Nika riots and the ruler who dispatched his general Belisarius to retake Western Roman lands. For 10 points, name this Byzantine ruler who built the Hagia Sophia.","Justinian I [or Justinian the Great; prompt on ""Justinian""]",Hagia_Sophia,[ True]
100,".This politician objected to the Mexican War by giving his Spot Resolutions. This leader gave the ""House Divided"" speech, and he engaged in a series of debates with Stephen (*) Douglas during the 1858 Senate election. The Emancipation Proclamation was signed by this president, who was shot in Ford's Theatre by John Wilkes Booth. For 10 points, name this president who served during the Civil War",Abraham Lincoln,Gerald_Ford,[ True]
101,".This politician objected to the Mexican War by giving his Spot Resolutions. This leader gave the ""House Divided"" speech, and he engaged in a series of debates with Stephen (*) Douglas during the 1858 Senate election. The Emancipation Proclamation was signed by this president, who was shot in Ford's Theatre by John Wilkes Booth. For 10 points, name this president who served during the Civil War.",Abraham Lincoln,Gerald_Ford,[ True]
102,".This character prizes a picture of a lady in a fur hat and fur boa. At the beginning of the work in which he appears, he has missed the five o'clock train and worries about catching the seven o'clock train. Later, he receives a wound from an apple, and he is confined to his room while his family takes in lodgers in an attempt to replace the income he used to earn as a traveling (*) salesman. For 10 points, name this character who upon waking discovers he has been turned into a ""monstrous vermin"" in Franz Kafka's The Metamorphosis",{Gregor Samsa} [accept either name],Franz_Kafka,[ True]
103,".This character prizes a picture of a lady in a fur hat and fur boa. At the beginning of the work in which he appears, he has missed the five o'clock train and worries about catching the seven o'clock train. Later, he receives a wound from an apple, and he is confined to his room while his family takes in lodgers in an attempt to replace the income he used to earn as a traveling (*) salesman. For 10 points, name this character who upon waking discovers he has been turned into a ""monstrous vermin"" in Franz Kafka's The Metamorphosis.",{Gregor Samsa} [accept either name],Franz_Kafka,[ True]
104,".This composer wrote a ""Festival Overture on the Danish National Anthem."" ""Gloomy Land, Misty Land"" is the second movement of this composer's first symphony, titled ""Winter Daydreams."" ""Tema Russo"" is the last movement of this composer's Romantic masterpiece, Serenade for Strings. This composer's sixth symphony in b minor is named ""Pathetique."" For 10 points, name this Russian composer who used cannons and the French and Russian national anthems in a piece commemorating the Battle of Borodino in his 1812 Overture.",Pyotr Ilyich {Tchaikovsky},1812_Overture,[ True]
105,".In Chapter 9, the protagonist of the novel is asked to conduct an Italian colleague on a tour of the Cathedral, but he never shows up and a priest tells a parable about the doorkeeper to the Law",The Trial or Der Prozess,The_Power_and_the_Glory,[ True]
106,.This author wrote a novel in which the protagonist is thanked for making the Widow Nazaret a whore and later conducts a four month affair with Barbara Lynch,Gabriel {Garcia Marquez},The_Red_Badge_of_Courage,[ True]
107,".This author wrote a novel in which the protagonist is thanked for making the Widow Nazaret a whore and later conducts a four month affair with Barbara Lynch. This author wrote a novel in which a character who is constantly swarmed by yellow butterflies, Mauricio, is shot and paralyzed while attempting to conduct an affair with Meme. He wrote a novel in which Juvenal Urbino's death allows Fermina Daza to reunite with Florentino Ariza and one which chronicles the lives of Jose Arcadio, Colonel Aureliano, and the rest of the Buendia family in Macondo",Gabriel {Garcia Marquez},Love_in_the_Time_of_Cholera,[ True]
108,".This author wrote a novel in which the protagonist is thanked for making the Widow Nazaret a whore and later conducts a four month affair with Barbara Lynch. This author wrote a novel in which a character who is constantly swarmed by yellow butterflies, Mauricio, is shot and paralyzed while attempting to conduct an affair with Meme. He wrote a novel in which Juvenal Urbino's death allows Fermina Daza to reunite with Florentino Ariza and one which chronicles the lives of Jose Arcadio, Colonel Aureliano, and the rest of the Buendia family in Macondo. For 10 points, name this author of Love in the Time of Cholera and One Hundred Years of Solitude",Gabriel {Garcia Marquez},Love_in_the_Time_of_Cholera,[ True]
109,".This author wrote a novel in which the protagonist is thanked for making the Widow Nazaret a whore and later conducts a four month affair with Barbara Lynch. This author wrote a novel in which a character who is constantly swarmed by yellow butterflies, Mauricio, is shot and paralyzed while attempting to conduct an affair with Meme. He wrote a novel in which Juvenal Urbino's death allows Fermina Daza to reunite with Florentino Ariza and one which chronicles the lives of Jose Arcadio, Colonel Aureliano, and the rest of the Buendia family in Macondo. For 10 points, name this author of Love in the Time of Cholera and One Hundred Years of Solitude.",Gabriel {Garcia Marquez},Love_in_the_Time_of_Cholera,[ True]
110,".One president of this country supplied his Caravan of Death with helicopters. That president also ordered his secret police, the DINA, to assassinate Orlando Letelier. Pedro de Valdivia was killed by native Mapuche in this country, which won a war caused by a tax on (*) saltpeter mining. As part of Operation Condor, one Marxist president of this country was ousted in a 1973 CIA-backed coup. This country, whose independence was orchestrated by Bernardo O'Higgins, won against Bolivia and Peru in the War of the Pacific. For ten points, identify this country once led by Salvador Allende and Augusto Pinochet from Santiago",Republic of Chile,Augusto_Pinochet,[ True]
111,".One president of this country supplied his Caravan of Death with helicopters. That president also ordered his secret police, the DINA, to assassinate Orlando Letelier. Pedro de Valdivia was killed by native Mapuche in this country, which won a war caused by a tax on (*) saltpeter mining. As part of Operation Condor, one Marxist president of this country was ousted in a 1973 CIA-backed coup. This country, whose independence was orchestrated by Bernardo O'Higgins, won against Bolivia and Peru in the War of the Pacific. For ten points, identify this country once led by Salvador Allende and Augusto Pinochet from Santiago.",Republic of Chile,Augusto_Pinochet,[ True]
112,".One of this author's works features a main character who ages thirty-six years over three centuries and undergoes a sex change halfway through. This author of Orlando also wrote a book which includes the suicide of shell-shocked Septimus Smith, while another examines the plight of a hypothetical ""Judith (*) Shakespeare."" For 10 points, name this author of Mrs. Dalloway who wrote that ""a woman must have money"" and the title abode ""if she is to write fiction"" in A Room Of One's Own",Virginia {Woolf},Mrs_Dalloway,[ True]
113,".One of this author's works features a main character who ages thirty-six years over three centuries and undergoes a sex change halfway through. This author of Orlando also wrote a book which includes the suicide of shell-shocked Septimus Smith, while another examines the plight of a hypothetical ""Judith (*) Shakespeare."" For 10 points, name this author of Mrs. Dalloway who wrote that ""a woman must have money"" and the title abode ""if she is to write fiction"" in A Room Of One's Own.",Virginia {Woolf},Mrs_Dalloway,[ True]
114,".Spanish architect Santiago Calatrava designed a namesake ""Spire"" for this city. This city is also the site of the Robie House, an exemplar of the Prairie Style. William Le Baron Jenney designed the Home Insurance building in this city, and a series of temporary buildings designed here by Daniel Burnham was known as the (*) White City. Frank Gehry designed this city's recently completed Millennium Park","{Chicago}, Illinois",Frank_Gehry,[ True]
115,".Spanish architect Santiago Calatrava designed a namesake ""Spire"" for this city. This city is also the site of the Robie House, an exemplar of the Prairie Style. William Le Baron Jenney designed the Home Insurance building in this city, and a series of temporary buildings designed here by Daniel Burnham was known as the (*) White City. Frank Gehry designed this city's recently completed Millennium Park. For 10 points, name this city whose suburb of Oak Park was home to much of Frank Lloyd Wright's work, and which contains the building formerly known as the Sears Tower","{Chicago}, Illinois",Frank_Gehry,[ True]
116,".Spanish architect Santiago Calatrava designed a namesake ""Spire"" for this city. This city is also the site of the Robie House, an exemplar of the Prairie Style. William Le Baron Jenney designed the Home Insurance building in this city, and a series of temporary buildings designed here by Daniel Burnham was known as the (*) White City. Frank Gehry designed this city's recently completed Millennium Park. For 10 points, name this city whose suburb of Oak Park was home to much of Frank Lloyd Wright's work, and which contains the building formerly known as the Sears Tower.","{Chicago}, Illinois",Frank_Gehry,[ True]
117,".This author wrote a play in which Fred tells the protagonist ""there is no truth; there's only whites and
 blacks"" after killing a black man on a train. That play opens with the title character, Lizzie, being asked to
 tell the truth. In another play Olga Lorame encourages Hugo Barine to assassinate a communist leader
 named Hoederer. This author of The Respectful Prostitute and Dirty Hands wrote a play in which one
 character admits he ran a pacifist newspaper during World War II and another admits that she drowned her
 illegitimate baby in a lake. For 10 points, name this French author who wrote about Inez, Estelle and
 Garcin and included the line ""Hell is other people"" in his play No Exit",Jean-Paul {Sartre},No_Exit,[ True]
118,".This author wrote a play in which Fred tells the protagonist ""there is no truth; there's only whites and
 blacks"" after killing a black man on a train. That play opens with the title character, Lizzie, being asked to
 tell the truth. In another play Olga Lorame encourages Hugo Barine to assassinate a communist leader
 named Hoederer. This author of The Respectful Prostitute and Dirty Hands wrote a play in which one
 character admits he ran a pacifist newspaper during World War II and another admits that she drowned her
 illegitimate baby in a lake. For 10 points, name this French author who wrote about Inez, Estelle and
 Garcin and included the line ""Hell is other people"" in his play No Exit.",Jean-Paul {Sartre},No_Exit,[ True]
119,".Jack Tanner is at the center of one of this author's works that features a debate between Don Juan and the devil. In another of his works, Andrew Undershaft makes a large donation to the Salvation Army. This author of Man and Superman wrote a play in which Colonel Pickering makes a bet with phonetics professor Henry Higgins, who attempts to pass Eliza Doolittle off as a duchess. For 10 points, name this Irish playwright of Major Barbara and Pygmalion.",George Bernard {Shaw},Pygmalion_(play),[ True]
120,".He was accused of being ""the pensioned agent of the manufacturing interest"" after New York and Boston businessmen supplemented his Senate income in 1845. He argued for his alma mater before the Supreme Court in Dartmouth v. Woodward. This man also had a debate with South Carolina's Robert Hayne over nullification. For 10 points, name this Massachusetts Whig statesman who negotiated an 1842 treaty establishing the border between Maine and New Brunswick with Baron Ashburton.",Daniel {Webster},Maine,[ True]
121,".Recently adherents to this religion in Canada have been criticized for using tables and chairs in their temples. It emphasizes good conduct over blind ritual, prohibits idol worship, advocates a life of honest work rather than ascetiscim, and posits a single, formless deity which has many names. Believed by historians to be associated with the Bhakti movement of Hinduism and Sufi branch of Islam, its symbol is the Khandra and more strict followers abide by the five K's",{Sikh}ism.,Sufism,[ True]
122,".Recently adherents to this religion in Canada have been criticized for using tables and chairs in their temples. It emphasizes good conduct over blind ritual, prohibits idol worship, advocates a life of honest work rather than ascetiscim, and posits a single, formless deity which has many names. Believed by historians to be associated with the Bhakti movement of Hinduism and Sufi branch of Islam, its symbol is the Khandra and more strict followers abide by the five K's. Its holy book is the Adi Granth and its spiritual center is the Golden Temple in Amritsar",{Sikh}ism.,Guru_Granth_Sahib,[ True]
123,".Recently adherents to this religion in Canada have been criticized for using tables and chairs in their temples. It emphasizes good conduct over blind ritual, prohibits idol worship, advocates a life of honest work rather than ascetiscim, and posits a single, formless deity which has many names. Believed by historians to be associated with the Bhakti movement of Hinduism and Sufi branch of Islam, its symbol is the Khandra and more strict followers abide by the five K's. Its holy book is the Adi Granth and its spiritual center is the Golden Temple in Amritsar. FTP identify this religion centered in the Punjab and founded by Guru Nanak",{Sikh}ism.,Guru_Nanak,[ True]
124,".Recently adherents to this religion in Canada have been criticized for using tables and chairs in their temples. It emphasizes good conduct over blind ritual, prohibits idol worship, advocates a life of honest work rather than ascetiscim, and posits a single, formless deity which has many names. Believed by historians to be associated with the Bhakti movement of Hinduism and Sufi branch of Islam, its symbol is the Khandra and more strict followers abide by the five K's. Its holy book is the Adi Granth and its spiritual center is the Golden Temple in Amritsar. FTP identify this religion centered in the Punjab and founded by Guru Nanak.",{Sikh}ism.,Guru_Nanak,[ True]
125,".This author's experience working with the Indian Imperial Police in 1922 led to his essay ""Shooting an Elephant."" The Last Man in Europe was the original title for one of his famous books, until the publisher intervened. In this author's work, his main character manages to have an affair with a dark- haired girl named Julia, despite love being illegal. His antagonism for the Communist faction on the Republican side in the Spanish Civil War shaped his political ideology",George {Orwell} (accept Eric {Blair} until mentioning),Spanish_Civil_War,[ True]
126,".This author's experience working with the Indian Imperial Police in 1922 led to his essay ""Shooting an Elephant."" The Last Man in Europe was the original title for one of his famous books, until the publisher intervened. In this author's work, his main character manages to have an affair with a dark- haired girl named Julia, despite love being illegal. His antagonism for the Communist faction on the Republican side in the Spanish Civil War shaped his political ideology. Born as Eric Blair, for 10 points, name this author of Burmese Days, 1984, and Animal Farm",George {Orwell} (accept Eric {Blair} until mentioning),Spanish_Civil_War,[ True]
127,".This author's experience working with the Indian Imperial Police in 1922 led to his essay ""Shooting an Elephant."" The Last Man in Europe was the original title for one of his famous books, until the publisher intervened. In this author's work, his main character manages to have an affair with a dark- haired girl named Julia, despite love being illegal. His antagonism for the Communist faction on the Republican side in the Spanish Civil War shaped his political ideology. Born as Eric Blair, for 10 points, name this author of Burmese Days, 1984, and Animal Farm.",George {Orwell} (accept Eric {Blair} until mentioning),Spanish_Civil_War,[ True]
128,".His career began with an influential expedition to Baffin Island and ended  some sixty years later on the other side of Canada, where he died while studying the links between the native populations of Siberia and the Pacific Northwest. One of the first scholars to describe societies by their own rather than by European standards, he pioneered the use of oral histories, and his students included Ruth Benedict and Zora Neale Hurston. FTP, name this author of _The  Mind of Primitive Man_ who helped found cultural anthropology.",Franz {Boas},Zora_Neale_Hurston,[ True]
129,".In one of his novels, he compares double displacement reactions to human life. In that work, Eduard and Charlotte invite Ottilie to their house as an experiment. This author of Elective Affinities chronicled a man's (*) journeyman and apprenticeship and wrote about a man that falls for a woman engaged to Albert and eventually shoots himself over grief. This author also wrote about Wilhelm Meister and a man who makes a deal with Mephistopheles. For 10 points, name this German author of The Sorrows of Young Werther and Faust",Johann Wolfgang von {Goethe} [pronounced GUR-tah] [MB],The_Sorrows_of_Young_Werther,[ True]
130,".In one of his novels, he compares double displacement reactions to human life. In that work, Eduard and Charlotte invite Ottilie to their house as an experiment. This author of Elective Affinities chronicled a man's (*) journeyman and apprenticeship and wrote about a man that falls for a woman engaged to Albert and eventually shoots himself over grief. This author also wrote about Wilhelm Meister and a man who makes a deal with Mephistopheles. For 10 points, name this German author of The Sorrows of Young Werther and Faust.",Johann Wolfgang von {Goethe} [pronounced GUR-tah] [MB],The_Sorrows_of_Young_Werther,[ True]
131,".An eight volume, 6000-page series details what he was doing most days of his life. At one point, he thought he had been imprisoned for seven years for loving Leonora, the Duke of Alfonso's sister, but, in fact, he was just out of his mind. Coiner of the term morphology, he was an amateur scientist who discovered the intermaxillary bone and wrote On the Theory of Colors. His first play was The Lover's Caprice, but he is more famous for such writings as Iphigenia in Tauris. For ten points, name this German author of Faust and The Sorrows of Young Werther",Johann Wolfgang von {Goethe},The_Sorrows_of_Young_Werther,[ True]
132,".An eight volume, 6000-page series details what he was doing most days of his life. At one point, he thought he had been imprisoned for seven years for loving Leonora, the Duke of Alfonso's sister, but, in fact, he was just out of his mind. Coiner of the term morphology, he was an amateur scientist who discovered the intermaxillary bone and wrote On the Theory of Colors. His first play was The Lover's Caprice, but he is more famous for such writings as Iphigenia in Tauris. For ten points, name this German author of Faust and The Sorrows of Young Werther.",Johann Wolfgang von {Goethe},The_Sorrows_of_Young_Werther,[ True]
133,".Solid iodoform formation is involved in a common method for testing for methyl versions of this functional group. With a thorium oxide catalyst, a dicarboxylic acid is converted into a cyclic version of these and in another reaction, thioesters and organozinc compounds also couple to form these. In addition to being the product of Ruzicka cyclization and Fukuyama Coupling, these tautomerizable compounds can be treated with either (*) mCPBA or hydrogen peroxide to form esters in the Baeyer-Villiger oxidation. Their ""bodies"" are found in the urine of starving people and, more commonly, diabetics. These compounds result after secondary alcohols are oxidized",ketones,Ester,[ True]
134,".Solid iodoform formation is involved in a common method for testing for methyl versions of this functional group. With a thorium oxide catalyst, a dicarboxylic acid is converted into a cyclic version of these and in another reaction, thioesters and organozinc compounds also couple to form these. In addition to being the product of Ruzicka cyclization and Fukuyama Coupling, these tautomerizable compounds can be treated with either (*) mCPBA or hydrogen peroxide to form esters in the Baeyer-Villiger oxidation. Their ""bodies"" are found in the urine of starving people and, more commonly, diabetics. These compounds result after secondary alcohols are oxidized. For 10 points, name this functional group, which has a carbon atom double-bonded to an oxygen atom and single-bonded to two carbon groups, the simplest of which is acetone",ketones,Carbon,[ True]
135,".Solid iodoform formation is involved in a common method for testing for methyl versions of this functional group. With a thorium oxide catalyst, a dicarboxylic acid is converted into a cyclic version of these and in another reaction, thioesters and organozinc compounds also couple to form these. In addition to being the product of Ruzicka cyclization and Fukuyama Coupling, these tautomerizable compounds can be treated with either (*) mCPBA or hydrogen peroxide to form esters in the Baeyer-Villiger oxidation. Their ""bodies"" are found in the urine of starving people and, more commonly, diabetics. These compounds result after secondary alcohols are oxidized. For 10 points, name this functional group, which has a carbon atom double-bonded to an oxygen atom and single-bonded to two carbon groups, the simplest of which is acetone.",ketones,Carbon,[ True]
136,".The title object of one of this author's poems is ""dressed up like a warrior"" and stripped ""scale by scale"" before being eaten. The speaker of another of this author's poems ""[looks] at the crystal moon"" and ""[touches] the impalpable ash"" in a poem that mourns his exile, ""If You Forget Me."" This poet of the collection Elemental Odes concluded one work with ""speak through my words and my blood."" That poem is ""The Heights of Macchu Picchu"" and appears in his collection Canto General. In another collection this poet laments, ""Tonight I can write the saddest lines."" For 10 points, name this Chilean poet of Twenty Love Poems and a Song of Despair",Pablo Neruda [or Neftalí Ricardo Reyes Basoalto],Twenty_Love_Poems_and_a_Song_of_Despair,[ True]
137,".The title object of one of this author's poems is ""dressed up like a warrior"" and stripped ""scale by scale"" before being eaten. The speaker of another of this author's poems ""[looks] at the crystal moon"" and ""[touches] the impalpable ash"" in a poem that mourns his exile, ""If You Forget Me."" This poet of the collection Elemental Odes concluded one work with ""speak through my words and my blood."" That poem is ""The Heights of Macchu Picchu"" and appears in his collection Canto General. In another collection this poet laments, ""Tonight I can write the saddest lines."" For 10 points, name this Chilean poet of Twenty Love Poems and a Song of Despair.",Pablo Neruda [or Neftalí Ricardo Reyes Basoalto],Twenty_Love_Poems_and_a_Song_of_Despair,[ True]
138,".This city's ""swimming pool case"" featured Betty Hill lobbying against a city policy restricting black usage of a park pool only on ""colored"" days. This city's ""Red Squad"" beat up labor organizer Karl Yoneda several times, and in 1997 undercover cop Frank Lyga shot another cop in self-defense here during a road rage incident. William Seymour and Charles Parham started a movement here described with the headline ""Weird Babel of Tongues."" For many years, this city was controlled by Harrison Gray Otis, who was opposed by labor activists J.J. and J",{Los Angeles},Benjamin_Harrison,[ True]
139,".This city's ""swimming pool case"" featured Betty Hill lobbying against a city policy restricting black usage of a park pool only on ""colored"" days. This city's ""Red Squad"" beat up labor organizer Karl Yoneda several times, and in 1997 undercover cop Frank Lyga shot another cop in self-defense here during a road rage incident. William Seymour and Charles Parham started a movement here described with the headline ""Weird Babel of Tongues."" For many years, this city was controlled by Harrison Gray Otis, who was opposed by labor activists J.J. and J.B",{Los Angeles},Benjamin_Harrison,[ True]
140,".This city's ""swimming pool case"" featured Betty Hill lobbying against a city policy restricting black usage of a park pool only on ""colored"" days. This city's ""Red Squad"" beat up labor organizer Karl Yoneda several times, and in 1997 undercover cop Frank Lyga shot another cop in self-defense here during a road rage incident. William Seymour and Charles Parham started a movement here described with the headline ""Weird Babel of Tongues."" For many years, this city was controlled by Harrison Gray Otis, who was opposed by labor activists J.J. and J.B. McNamara",{Los Angeles},Benjamin_Harrison,[ True]
141,".This city's ""swimming pool case"" featured Betty Hill lobbying against a city policy restricting black usage of a park pool only on ""colored"" days. This city's ""Red Squad"" beat up labor organizer Karl Yoneda several times, and in 1997 undercover cop Frank Lyga shot another cop in self-defense here during a road rage incident. William Seymour and Charles Parham started a movement here described with the headline ""Weird Babel of Tongues."" For many years, this city was controlled by Harrison Gray Otis, who was opposed by labor activists J.J. and J.B. McNamara. This city was home to the Azusa Street Revival, which helped spread Pentecostalism",{Los Angeles},New_York_City,[ True]
142,".This city's ""swimming pool case"" featured Betty Hill lobbying against a city policy restricting black usage of a park pool only on ""colored"" days. This city's ""Red Squad"" beat up labor organizer Karl Yoneda several times, and in 1997 undercover cop Frank Lyga shot another cop in self-defense here during a road rage incident. William Seymour and Charles Parham started a movement here described with the headline ""Weird Babel of Tongues."" For many years, this city was controlled by Harrison Gray Otis, who was opposed by labor activists J.J. and J.B. McNamara. This city was home to the Azusa Street Revival, which helped spread Pentecostalism. Under the supervision of Chief Engineer William Mulholland and using water taken from the Owens River, this city constructed a namesake aqueduct in the 1910's",{Los Angeles},New_York_City,[ True]
143,".This city's ""swimming pool case"" featured Betty Hill lobbying against a city policy restricting black usage of a park pool only on ""colored"" days. This city's ""Red Squad"" beat up labor organizer Karl Yoneda several times, and in 1997 undercover cop Frank Lyga shot another cop in self-defense here during a road rage incident. William Seymour and Charles Parham started a movement here described with the headline ""Weird Babel of Tongues."" For many years, this city was controlled by Harrison Gray Otis, who was opposed by labor activists J.J. and J.B. McNamara. This city was home to the Azusa Street Revival, which helped spread Pentecostalism. Under the supervision of Chief Engineer William Mulholland and using water taken from the Owens River, this city constructed a namesake aqueduct in the 1910's. For 10 points, what is this southern California city that contains the San Fernando Valley?",{Los Angeles},New_York_City,[ True]
144,".This sculptor depicted a screaming lady with outstretched arms pushing the face of a bearded man in The Rape of Proserpina. One of this sculptor's works depicts a figure running from a god and turning into a laurel tree. This sculptor of [*] Apollo and Daphne made a version of David that shows the shepherd about to release the sling. This sculptor also made a fountain that symbolizes the power of the Ganges, Rio de la Plata, Danube, and Nile rivers. One of this man's works located in the Cornaro Chapel shows an angel pointing a thin spear at a swooning nun. For 10 points, name this Italian sculptor of The Ecstasy of St. Theresa",Gian-Lorenzo {Bernini},Ganges,[ True]
145,".This sculptor depicted a screaming lady with outstretched arms pushing the face of a bearded man in The Rape of Proserpina. One of this sculptor's works depicts a figure running from a god and turning into a laurel tree. This sculptor of [*] Apollo and Daphne made a version of David that shows the shepherd about to release the sling. This sculptor also made a fountain that symbolizes the power of the Ganges, Rio de la Plata, Danube, and Nile rivers. One of this man's works located in the Cornaro Chapel shows an angel pointing a thin spear at a swooning nun. For 10 points, name this Italian sculptor of The Ecstasy of St. Theresa.",Gian-Lorenzo {Bernini},Ganges,[ True]
146,".He wrote about thieves who demand one hundred pounds from Jonathan, who earns a living giving bike rides, in his ""Civil Peace."" Another of his novels sees one character murdered by the secret police after a joke about minting new coins with the President's face is misinterpreted as a call for a beheading, and Ikem's death convinces Chris Oroki to flee the city of Bassa and Sam's dictatorship of Kangan. Another novel sees Clara have an abortion at Obi's insistence",Chinua {Achebe},Roe_v._Wade,[ True]
147,".The transfer of this property due to surface tension is known as the Marangoni effect. Wiezsacker's formula can be used to calculate this quantity for an atomic nucleus. The principle of equivalence maintains that the inertial and gravitational forms of this quantity are equal. Kinetic energy can be calculated by multiplying this quantity by velocity squared. Momentum divided by velocity is equal to this quantity, which is multiplied by acceleration to yield force. For 10 points, name this quantity, the amount of matter in an object, which is measured in kilograms.","mass [prompt on m; do not accept ""weight""]",Velocity,[ True]
148,.This artist included a group of dogs that try to bite a half-naked woman in one painting of his four part series about Nastagio Degli Onesti. He supposedly was accused of heresy because his version of the Assumption of the Virgin was modeled on Dante's Inferno and features an infinite number of people,Sandro Botticelli or [Alessandro di Mariano di Vanni Filipepi],Divine_Comedy,[ True]
149,".This artist included a group of dogs that try to bite a half-naked woman in one painting of his four part series about Nastagio Degli Onesti. He supposedly was accused of heresy because his version of the Assumption of the Virgin was modeled on Dante's Inferno and features an infinite number of people. Three angels in green, red and white robes adorn a building's roof in this artist's only signed painting, which features an an inscription that warns of the ""second woe of the apocalypse",Sandro Botticelli or [Alessandro di Mariano di Vanni Filipepi],Divine_Comedy,[ True]
150,".This artist included a group of dogs that try to bite a half-naked woman in one painting of his four part series about Nastagio Degli Onesti. He supposedly was accused of heresy because his version of the Assumption of the Virgin was modeled on Dante's Inferno and features an infinite number of people. Three angels in green, red and white robes adorn a building's roof in this artist's only signed painting, which features an an inscription that warns of the ""second woe of the apocalypse."" In another painting by this artist, the (*) nymph Chloris is pursued by Zephyrus, who is personified as a pale blue figure",Sandro Botticelli or [Alessandro di Mariano di Vanni Filipepi],The_Night_Watch,[ True]
151,".In one work, this man criticized the progress resulting from art and science as empowering governments and undermining friendship in Discourse on the Arts and Sciences. One work by this author advocates that only at adolescence can children understand complex emotions like (*) sympathy. Another of his works advocates small communities that allow for the conscience of their inhabitants to develop into an incontrovertible ""general will."" For 10 points, name this author of Emile who declared that man is ""born free, and everywhere he is in chains"" in a book suggesting the title arrangement between the people and the Sovereign, The Social Contract",Jean-Jacques Rousseau,The_Social_Contract,[ True]
152,".In one work, this man criticized the progress resulting from art and science as empowering governments and undermining friendship in Discourse on the Arts and Sciences. One work by this author advocates that only at adolescence can children understand complex emotions like (*) sympathy. Another of his works advocates small communities that allow for the conscience of their inhabitants to develop into an incontrovertible ""general will."" For 10 points, name this author of Emile who declared that man is ""born free, and everywhere he is in chains"" in a book suggesting the title arrangement between the people and the Sovereign, The Social Contract.",Jean-Jacques Rousseau,The_Social_Contract,[ True]
153,".Aglauros and Herse went mad and jumped to their deaths after disobeying this deity, who had told the daughters of Cecrops to not open a box that held a boy disguised as a snake. That boy was a son of Gaia and Hephaestus even though the latter had tried to rape this goddess instead. Marsyas picked up a flute that she (*) invented but eventually discarded because it disfigured her face. Homer often refers to this figure as ""gray-eyed"", and as Mentor, she helps Odysseus leave for the Trojan War and return home to Ithaca. One of her symbols is the owl, and she was born from Metis in Zeus's head. For 10 points, name this Greek goddess of wisdom",Pallas {Athena} (accept {Athene}; accept {Athena} Parthenos),Hephaestus,[ True]
154,".Aglauros and Herse went mad and jumped to their deaths after disobeying this deity, who had told the daughters of Cecrops to not open a box that held a boy disguised as a snake. That boy was a son of Gaia and Hephaestus even though the latter had tried to rape this goddess instead. Marsyas picked up a flute that she (*) invented but eventually discarded because it disfigured her face. Homer often refers to this figure as ""gray-eyed"", and as Mentor, she helps Odysseus leave for the Trojan War and return home to Ithaca. One of her symbols is the owl, and she was born from Metis in Zeus's head. For 10 points, name this Greek goddess of wisdom.",Pallas {Athena} (accept {Athene}; accept {Athena} Parthenos),Hephaestus,[ True]
155,".This author about Kirby Allbee accosting magazine editor Asa Leventhal in his novel The Victim. This author whose first novel is in a diary form of Ava's husband Joseph waiting to go off to war also showed a man who experiences fantasmo imperium, Albert Corde",Saul {Bellow} or really Saul {Bello} (but let's also take Solomon {Bellows}),The_Red_Badge_of_Courage,[ True]
156,".This author about Kirby Allbee accosting magazine editor Asa Leventhal in his novel The Victim. This author whose first novel is in a diary form of Ava's husband Joseph waiting to go off to war also showed a man who experiences fantasmo imperium, Albert Corde. Another of his novels sees the title character spending an evening with Clara Spohr, using explosives against a bunch of frogs in a reservoir, and wrestling against Itelo",Saul {Bellow} or really Saul {Bello} (but let's also take Solomon {Bellows}),The_House_of_the_Spirits,[ True]
157,".This author about Kirby Allbee accosting magazine editor Asa Leventhal in his novel The Victim. This author whose first novel is in a diary form of Ava's husband Joseph waiting to go off to war also showed a man who experiences fantasmo imperium, Albert Corde. Another of his novels sees the title character spending an evening with Clara Spohr, using explosives against a bunch of frogs in a reservoir, and wrestling against Itelo.  This author of Dangling Man and The Dean's December, wrote a novel whose first paragraph quotes Heraclitus about character being fate before the protagonist goes off to Mexico and raising an iguana. For ten points, name this Chicago author that created a man who married Stella, Augie March",Saul {Bellow} or really Saul {Bello} (but let's also take Solomon {Bellows}),Heraclitus,[ True]
158,".This author about Kirby Allbee accosting magazine editor Asa Leventhal in his novel The Victim. This author whose first novel is in a diary form of Ava's husband Joseph waiting to go off to war also showed a man who experiences fantasmo imperium, Albert Corde. Another of his novels sees the title character spending an evening with Clara Spohr, using explosives against a bunch of frogs in a reservoir, and wrestling against Itelo.  This author of Dangling Man and The Dean's December, wrote a novel whose first paragraph quotes Heraclitus about character being fate before the protagonist goes off to Mexico and raising an iguana. For ten points, name this Chicago author that created a man who married Stella, Augie March.",Saul {Bellow} or really Saul {Bello} (but let's also take Solomon {Bellows}),Heraclitus,[ True]
159,".In one painting by him, a man holds a horse's bit as the title figure sprawls on the ground, while in another an innkeeper serves Jesus as a disciple stretches his arms out. In addition to the Conversion of St. Paul and Supper at Emmaus, this artist painted a work in which a beam of light from beyond the picture frame shines on the title gospel writer. For 10 points, identify this Italian master of chiaroscuro who painted The Calling of St. Matthew.",Michelangelo Merisi de {Caravaggio},Last_Supper,[ True]
160,".Staffordshire's John Wilkinson got a nickname for being ""mad"" about this product, whose production was made easier by James Beaumont Neilson. Henry Cort patented a puddling process to transform this material. Abraham Darby's family made a fortune producing this material. Stephenson's Rocket was often compared to a ""horse"" made of this material. With (*) plate-glass, this material was used to build the Crystal Palace","{iron} [or cast iron; or wrought iron; or pig iron; do not accept \""steel\""]",Glass,[ True]
161,".Staffordshire's John Wilkinson got a nickname for being ""mad"" about this product, whose production was made easier by James Beaumont Neilson. Henry Cort patented a puddling process to transform this material. Abraham Darby's family made a fortune producing this material. Stephenson's Rocket was often compared to a ""horse"" made of this material. With (*) plate-glass, this material was used to build the Crystal Palace. At the 1866 battle of Lissa, ramming destroyed an Italian ship built from this substance","{iron} [or cast iron; or wrought iron; or pig iron; do not accept \""steel\""]",Glass,[ True]
162,".Staffordshire's John Wilkinson got a nickname for being ""mad"" about this product, whose production was made easier by James Beaumont Neilson. Henry Cort patented a puddling process to transform this material. Abraham Darby's family made a fortune producing this material. Stephenson's Rocket was often compared to a ""horse"" made of this material. With (*) plate-glass, this material was used to build the Crystal Palace. At the 1866 battle of Lissa, ramming destroyed an Italian ship built from this substance. It is refined using a material called coke in blast furnaces","{iron} [or cast iron; or wrought iron; or pig iron; do not accept \""steel\""]",Glass,[ True]
163,".Staffordshire's John Wilkinson got a nickname for being ""mad"" about this product, whose production was made easier by James Beaumont Neilson. Henry Cort patented a puddling process to transform this material. Abraham Darby's family made a fortune producing this material. Stephenson's Rocket was often compared to a ""horse"" made of this material. With (*) plate-glass, this material was used to build the Crystal Palace. At the 1866 battle of Lissa, ramming destroyed an Italian ship built from this substance. It is refined using a material called coke in blast furnaces. For 10 points, name this metal which has been used since Zhou dynasty China in its ""pig"" form, which, with carbon, is turned via the Bessemer process into steel","{iron} [or cast iron; or wrought iron; or pig iron; do not accept \""steel\""]",Glass,[ True]
164,".Staffordshire's John Wilkinson got a nickname for being ""mad"" about this product, whose production was made easier by James Beaumont Neilson. Henry Cort patented a puddling process to transform this material. Abraham Darby's family made a fortune producing this material. Stephenson's Rocket was often compared to a ""horse"" made of this material. With (*) plate-glass, this material was used to build the Crystal Palace. At the 1866 battle of Lissa, ramming destroyed an Italian ship built from this substance. It is refined using a material called coke in blast furnaces. For 10 points, name this metal which has been used since Zhou dynasty China in its ""pig"" form, which, with carbon, is turned via the Bessemer process into steel.","{iron} [or cast iron; or wrought iron; or pig iron; do not accept \""steel\""]",Glass,[ True]
165,.One work by this poet describes a boy walking along a beach who hears the song of a mockingbird,Walt {Whitman},To_Kill_a_Mockingbird,[ True]
166,".One work by this poet describes a boy walking along a beach who hears the song of a mockingbird. He also wrote a poem that describes a common farmer who is the father of five sons in which the narrator states ""the armies of those I love engirth me""",Walt {Whitman},To_Kill_a_Mockingbird,[ True]
167,".One work by this poet describes a boy walking along a beach who hears the song of a mockingbird. He also wrote a poem that describes a common farmer who is the father of five sons in which the narrator states ""the armies of those I love engirth me"". In another work by this man, the bugles trill for an individual whose lips are pale and still",Walt {Whitman},To_Kill_a_Mockingbird,[ True]
168,".One work by this poet describes a boy walking along a beach who hears the song of a mockingbird. He also wrote a poem that describes a common farmer who is the father of five sons in which the narrator states ""the armies of those I love engirth me"". In another work by this man, the bugles trill for an individual whose lips are pale and still. This man also wrote a poem that states ""every atom belonging to me as good belongs to you"" after saying ""I celebrate myself"". For 10 points, name this American poet who wrote works like ""I Sing the Body Electric"" and ""Song of Myself"" in his collection Leaves of Grass",Walt {Whitman},Leaves_of_Grass,[ True]
169,".One work by this poet describes a boy walking along a beach who hears the song of a mockingbird. He also wrote a poem that describes a common farmer who is the father of five sons in which the narrator states ""the armies of those I love engirth me"". In another work by this man, the bugles trill for an individual whose lips are pale and still. This man also wrote a poem that states ""every atom belonging to me as good belongs to you"" after saying ""I celebrate myself"". For 10 points, name this American poet who wrote works like ""I Sing the Body Electric"" and ""Song of Myself"" in his collection Leaves of Grass.",Walt {Whitman},Leaves_of_Grass,[ True]
170,".This author mused ""suppose all the lions get up and go, And all the brooks and soldiers run away?"" asking ""will time say nothing but I told you so?"" in his villanelle. In one poem by this author, the speaker laments that ""The stars are not wanted now; put out every one, Pack up the moon and dismantle the sun."" Yet another poem by this author reminds the reader that ""even the dreadful martyrdom must run its course."" This author mourned a lover who was ""my North, my South, my East and West"" in a poem beginning (*) ""stop all the clocks."" He wrote that ""dogs go on with their doggy life"" and that ""about suffering ,"" the ""Old Masters"" were ""never wrong"" in a poem about ""Breughel's Icarus."" For 10 points, name this poet who wrote ""Funeral Blues"" and ""Musee des Beaux Arts.""",Wystan Hugh Auden,Elegy_Written_in_a_Country_Churchyard,[ True]
171,".On the left, a shadowed building appears whose second floor is painted red. The right side features a triangular building containing a similarly-shaped brown triangle, while an advertisement for ""Phillies"" appears (*) near the top. The outside of that building is mostly made of glass and contains no door, while its only employee wears white. The artist used his wife Jo as the model for the woman wearing red, who is seated at a counter along with two men wearing suits",{Nighthawks},Red,[ True]
172,".On the left, a shadowed building appears whose second floor is painted red. The right side features a triangular building containing a similarly-shaped brown triangle, while an advertisement for ""Phillies"" appears (*) near the top. The outside of that building is mostly made of glass and contains no door, while its only employee wears white. The artist used his wife Jo as the model for the woman wearing red, who is seated at a counter along with two men wearing suits. FTP, name this painting of the lonely inhabitants of a late night diner, the best known work of Edward Hopper",{Nighthawks},Edward_Hopper,[ True]
173,".On the left, a shadowed building appears whose second floor is painted red. The right side features a triangular building containing a similarly-shaped brown triangle, while an advertisement for ""Phillies"" appears (*) near the top. The outside of that building is mostly made of glass and contains no door, while its only employee wears white. The artist used his wife Jo as the model for the woman wearing red, who is seated at a counter along with two men wearing suits. FTP, name this painting of the lonely inhabitants of a late night diner, the best known work of Edward Hopper.",{Nighthawks},Edward_Hopper,[ True]
