	question	correct_answer	guess	buzz
0	"One family in this work flees France after rescuing an ""unfortunate Muhammadan"" who is arrested for his religion the day his daughter Safie arrives from Constantinople. In addition to the De Laceys, another character in this work educated himself by reading about the Northwest Passage, and begins the novel by writing a series of letters to Margaret. Justine Moritz is falsely accused of the murder of the title character's brother William in this novel, which causes the title character to travel to England with Clerval to satisfy the demands of the antagonist for a female companion. The protagonist is rescued by Robert Walton in the Arctic and hails from Lake Geneva. For 10 points, identify this novel subtitled The Modern Prometheus, a Mary Shelley work about creating a certain monster."	Frankenstein, or the Modern Prometheus	Frankenstein	True
1	"During his reign, this man established subordinate bodies called the Triers and Ejectors to rule over clergy and teachers. Following a failed coup attempt against him led by John Lambert, he disbanded the Assembly of Saints, and this ruler mandated that Parliament follow the ""four fundamentals."" His rule saw the conquering of Jamaica by the British. His government, which fought for the ""Good Old Cause,"" worked to oppress sects like the Fifth Monarchy Men. One of his greatest military campaigns concluded with the Battle of Worcester, a conflict that followed his predecessor's Bishops' Wars. This organizer of the New Model Army was succeeded by his son Richard. For 10 points, name this first Lord Protector of England."	Oliver Cromwell	Jamaica	False
2	"One author from this country wrote a story whose title character takes a walk each Sunday to people-watch, but when she overhears a couple making fun of her, she imagines her fox-fur crying. That native of this country also wrote a story in which things like a pear tree and Pearl Fulton inspire the titular emotion in Bertha Young. In a novel by another author from this country, the mute Simon is abused by his adoptive father Joe Gillayley and finds his way to the ""Tower"" where Kerewin Holmes lives. This country is home to the author of ""Miss Brill,"" ""Bliss,"" and a story in which Mr. Scott's death fails to derail the title event, despite Laura Sheridan's objections. For 10 points, name this homeland of the authors of The Bone People and ""The Garden Party,"" Keri Hulme and Katherine Mansfield."	New Zealand [accept Aotearoa; or The Land of the Long White Cloud]	Katherine_Mansfield	False
3	"In one of this author's works, the speaker asserts that ""one must be for ever drunken: that is the sole question of importance."" Another of his works sees the speaker attack the title character for having ""no coloured glasses."" In addition to ""Intoxication"" and ""The Glass-Vendor,"" he described how ""Languorous Asia and burning Africa, / A whole world, distant, absent, almost exist"" in the title object of ""The Head of Hair."" The title character, a ""captive king,"" is mocked because its ""giant wings keep them from walking"" in his ""The Albatross."" He opened another work asserting ""folly and error...possess our spirits,"" after which he compares himself to the ""hypocrite reader."" For 10 points, name this man who wrote the Prose Poems, the French author of The Flowers of Evil."	Charles Baudelaire	Speaker_of_the_United_States_House_of_Representatives	False
4	The transition temperature of these systems is proportional to the particle density divided by the Riemann zeta function, all to the two-thirds power. Vortices in them are allowed via the psi-squared term in the equation describing the wavefunction of these systems. Sweeping a magnetic field through one of these causes spin-flip collisions and the Feschbach resonance, while further increasing the field causes an implosion followed by an explosion in a namesake type of nova. Their wavefunction is described by the Gross-Pitaevskii equation. They were first created by Cornell, Wieman, and Ketterle by laser-cooling a bunch of rubidium atoms. For 10 points, name this system consisting of a bunch of degenerate ultracold bosons.	 {Bose}-Einstein condensates [{or BECs}]	Bose–Einstein_condensate	False
5	"One of this author's title characters writes the poems for The Poet, befriends Abdul, and attempts to seduce his adopted father's wife, Queen Beatrice. In one of his better known works, SFAs make way for Diabolicals as target customers for the vanity publishing label Manuzio. An antique book seller named Yambo must rediscover his youth after his memory is erased in another of his novels. One of his title characters authors a phony letter from Prestor John addressed to Frederick the Great. Besides The Mysterious Flame of Queen Loana and Baudolino, one work by this author sees Diotallevi, Belbo and Casaubon form ""The Plan"" to write a fake history of the Knights Templar. For 10 points, name this Italian author of The Name of the Rose and Foucault's Pendulum."	Umberto Eco	Foucault's_Pendulum	False
6	The pre-colonial history of this country included a kingdom of the Efik people at Calabar, where Mary Slessor went as a missionary. Samuel Ajayi Crowther was this nation's first native bishop. Usman dan Fodio declared jihad in what would become this country, founding a sultanate at Sokoto. This country also contained the Oyo Kingdom. Olauduh Equiano was born here, and Nnamdi Azikiwe led an independence movement here. Odumegwu Ojukwu began a civil war in this country, whose colonial history was marked by palm oil trade. The Fulani and Hausa ethnic groups are prominent in this nation's north, and its southeastern Igbo people created the secessionist Republic of Biafra. For 10 points, name this country, which was ruled as part of British West Africa from Lagos.	Nigeria	Nigeria	True
7	Luigi Pasinetti created a mathematical system formalizing the growth theory of this thinker, a scholar of whom is J. H. Hollander. Piero Sraffa collected the works of this thinker, whom Robert Barro credited with influencing his suggestion that the timing of tax changes does not affect consumer spending. This man argued in one essay that raised tariffs on grain imports raised rents and lowered profits of manufacturers. He is credited with introducing the differential theory of rent and the law of diminishing returns. Later, this man with a namesake equivalence principle proposed his labor-embodied theory of value. For 10 points, name this author of The High Price of Bullion and Principles of Political Economy and Taxation who also came up with the idea of comparative advantage.	David Ricardo	David_Ricardo	True
8	"This author wrote ""And I am dumb to tell the lover's tomb / How at my sheet goes the same crooked worm"" in a poem that examines the link between the forces of destruction and creation. He wrote that Time would eventually take him ""Up to the swallow-thronged loft by the shadow of my hand"" in a work reminiscing about his childhood, when he was ""young and easy under the apple boughs."" This author of the aforementioned ""The Force that Through the Green Fuse Drives the Flower"" described how ""Time held me green and dying / Though I sang in my chains like the sea"" in another poem. For 10 points, name this author of ""Fern Hill"" who urged his father to ""rage, rage against the dying of the light"" in ""Do Not Go Gentle Into That Good Night."""	Dylan Thomas	Green	False
9	"In one novel, this writer depicted a titular character observing a blackbird, a gecko, a cheese shop, and a pair of naked breasts. In another novel by this author, Estomac marries a snail cooker who is the sister of a later lover of Violante. In another novel, this writer contrasted the robot-like reading approach taken by Lotaria with the pleasure-seeking approach taken by Lotaria's sister Ludmilla. He explained, ""It is not the voice that commands the story: it is the ear,"" in a novel that depicted Kublai Khan's attempts at soliciting the unambiguous reality of certain titular entities from the persistently uncertain Marco Polo. For 10 points, name this Italian author who wrote Mr. Palomar, The Baron in the Trees, If on a Winter's Night a Traveler, and Invisible Cities."	Italo Calvino	If_on_a_winter's_night_a_traveler	False
10	The protagonist of one novel by this author regularly meets with an intellectual group called The Table at the EL-AY Café; later, that protagonist, Julie Summers, marries the mechanic Abdu. This author wrote a novel in which Ann Davis has an affair with the painter Gideon Shibalo in a work that centers on Jessie Stillwell. This author of The Pickup and Occasion for Loving wrote of Jacobus finding a dead body on Mehring's farm in another of her novels. Daniel steals a gun from the central family of another of her books, which takes its epigraph from the Prison Notebooks and sees the title servant protect Bam and Maureen Smales during an uprising. For 10 points, name this South African author of The Conservationist and July's People.	Nadine Gordimer	Miss_Julie	False
11	Odin once asked this figure to cast a spell on two groups of twenty-one kings that forced them to fight each other, die, and be reborn eternally. Loki once snuck into this figure's bedroom disguised as a flea, which was necessary because no one could enter without this figure's permission. She was the only figure who could bring Hrungnir more ale to drink until Thor was called to eliminate him. This mother of Hnoss travelled the world in order to find her husband. This owner of the boar Hildisvini also owned a cape of falcon feathers that allowed her to fly and a chariot that was pulled by cats. For 10 points, name this member of the Vanir who slept with four dwarves in order to obtain the necklace Brisingamen, the Norse goddess of love and the sister of Frey.	Freya [or Freyja; do not accept “Frigg” or “Frigga”]	Loki	False
12	"One work by this writer introduces the idea of ""postfigurative, cofigurative and prefigurative"" societies. This writer's autobiography takes its name from a regional expression for a late cold spell that ruins a certain crop. The most vocal critic of this writer's work has attacked a commitment to write ""for the Bishop Museum"" and this writer's relationship with Dr. Charles Lane. Those attacks have come in books that describe ""the Making and Unmaking of an Anthropological Myth"" and this writer being subject to ""a Fateful Hoaxing."" Those attacks, launched by Derek Freeman, have claimed that this anthropologist misunderstood or was lied to by the teenage girls like Lola and Mala on the island of Ta'u. For 10 points, identify this author of Coming of Age in Samoa."	Margaret Mead	Coming_of_Age_in_Samoa	False
13	"The cantata The Heirs of White Mountain triggered fame in his homeland for this composer, whose Carnival Overture formed part of his Nature, Life, and Love trilogy. In England, Joseph Barnby introduced his Stabat Mater, the first religious piece by this composer. His only violin concerto was premiered by Joachim after that of Brahms. He composed a work whose six movements is each a ""fleeting thought."" A premiere by Victor Herbert convinced this composer to compose his second cello concerto in B minor, while time spent in Iowa convinced this composer of the American quartet, The Bells of Zlonice symphony, and the Dumky Trio to explore folk tunes in his ninth symphony. For 10 points, name this Czech composer who composed a symphony From the New World."	Antonin Dvorak	Violin_concerto	False
14	One paradox concerning this quantity, in which one calculation places it in the numerator but a formula for an identical quantity places it in the denominator, was raised by Peierls. A complex version of this quantity adds i plus the extinction coefficient, while one formula sets its square equal to a rational equation in terms of the coefficients B1 through 3 and C1 through 3. This quantity can be negative in artificial metamaterials. The arctangent of the ratio of this quantity for two materials gives Brewster's angle. Along with the sines of the angle of incidence and this quantity's namesake angle, it is used in Snell's Law. For 10 points, name this quantity that describes the speed of light in a medium, the namesake of a certain light-bending effect.	 index of refraction [prompt on n]	Total_internal_reflection	False
15	A specific type of these entities x obey a relation in which x squared divides the x minus Legendre symbol x over fifth Fibonacci number. Another type satisfies the conditions of Wolstonholme's theorem for the fourth power, though all of them satisfy that result for the third power. If x is one of these and 2x plus 1 is also, they are named for Germain. In addition to the Wall-Sun-Sun ones, these numbers divide themselves minus one factorial plus one according to Wilson's theorem. Their count is asymptotic to x over the natural log of x, and Goldberg's hypothesis states that every even number can be expressed as the sum of two of these. Fermat and Mersenne give their names to varieties of, for 10 points, what kind of number whose only factors are one and itself?	 prime numbers	Pierre_de_Fermat	False
16	"The aboriginal inhabitants of this nation were the Guanajatabey, though they were mostly supplanted by the Ciboney and Taino before the appearance of European explorers. The Revolutionary Committee of Bayamo planned this country's first war of independence, during which the seizure of the steamer Virginius caused tensions between the colonial Spanish and other powers; that war had begun with the insurrection of Manuel de Cespedes in this country and the ""Grito de Yara,"" and is known as its Ten Years War. Ramon Grau replaced Gerardo Machado in this nation in 1933 after the Coup of September, better known as the Sargeant's Revolt. The Twenty-Sixth of July Movement here overthrew Fulgencio Batista. For 10 points, name this island nation that was led by Fidel Castro."	Cuba	Fidel_Castro	False
17	The first host of an endoparasitic digenea and the intermediate host of species of Schistosoma are members of this phylum. Mercenaria mercenaria is a member of this phylum that contains a pallial line, a ctenidium composed of demibranchs, byssal glands, a ventricle wrapped around the rectum, a protuberance known as the umbo, and a chitinous toothed structure called the radula. Eric Kandel uses the ganglia of one member of this phylum for neurophysiological studies. In addition to the model organism Aplysia, this phylum consists of members in classes such as Polyplacophora, Bivalvia, and Cephalopoda. For 10 points, name this phylum, members of which have a mantle that is responsible for secreting the shell, and include chitons, clams, oysters, snails, and squids.	 mollusca [or molluscs]	Mollusca	True
18	"This ruler won victories at Varaville and Mortemer over Geoffrey Martel. He established Roger of Montgomery as the first Earl of Shrewsbury, creating the Welsh Marches. This ruler faced a rebellion from the earls of Norfolk, Hereford, and Northumberland. Another rebellion against this ruler was led by the men who had earlier lost the Battle of Fulford, Edwin and Morcar. This patron of Lanfranc of Pavia ordered the Harrying of the North. This half-brother of Bishop Odo and husband of Matilda of Flanders was succeeded by his sons Roger Curthose and William Rufus. Originally known as ""the Bastard,"" this ruler won another title by defeating Harold II. For 10 points, name this commissioner of the Domesday Book and winner of the Battle of Hastings, the first Norman king of England."	William the Conqueror [or William I; or William of Normandy; accept William the Bastard before it is read]	William_the_Conqueror	True
19	"This country and its southern neighbor entered into the Ogdensburg Agreement. Freight rates were lowered in this country following the Crow's Nest Pass Agreement. The speedy arrival of a force under Frederick Middleton led to the relatively quick end of a rebellion in this country. After the death of Premier Duplessis, the desire to be ""masters of our own house"" led to the Quiet Revolution in this country. The passage of Bill 178 led to great opposition to the ""distinct society"" clause of the Meech Lake Accord, which was an attempt to amend this country's constitution. Hugh Allan was given the contract to build this country's namesake Pacific Railway, which led to the resignation of John Macdonald. For 10 points, name this country whose PMs have included Kim Campbell and Pierre Trudeau."	Canada	Pierre_Trudeau	False
20	This artist depicted his girlfriend sitting on a bench on the beach near Dieppe in the painting By the Seashore. This artist's paintings of Suzanne Valadon include Girl Braiding Her Hair and Dance at Bougival. A white-faced woman in a black-and-white striped dress gazes at the viewer while the man next to her looks off at an angle through opera glasses in his La Loge, also known as The Theater Box. Another of his paintings shows Gustave Caillebotte sitting backwards in a chair while this man's future wife Aline Charigot plays with a dog at a table in a balcony of the Maison Fournaise. For 10 points, name this Impressionist who depicted a Sunday evening at a restaurant in Montmartre in Bal du Moulin de la Gallette and also painted Luncheon of the Boating Party.	Pierre-Auguste Renoir	Luncheon_of_the_Boating_Party	False
21	A figure who was either the wife or daughter of this god wore a cheetah hide and assisted pharaohs with the cord-stretching ritual for appropriately laying the foundations of temples. One being sometimes said to have been a consort of this deity, Astennu, stood around the lake of fire in Duat with three similar beings. This father or husband of Seshat cheated the moon god Khonsu out of five days of light so that Nut could defy Ra's proscription and give birth to five deities. One of his alternate forms was the god of equilibrium, the baboon A'an. He also spoke the words that created the heavens and Earth at Ra's bidding, and helped Isis find the scattered parts of Osiris. For 10 points, identify this scribe of Ma'at who invented writing, the ibis-headed Egyptian god of Wisdom.	Thoth [accept Djehuti, Tahuti, Zehuti, Techu, Tehu, or Thout; accept Seshat before “this god”]	Ra	False
22	"One work by this composer is considered one of the most technically demanding of its kind and has a notable second movement with quick glissandi, but ends in its fourth with an unusual use of the rare Locrian mode. This man's other compositions include an E-minor work dedicated to Rostropovich, and a suite that contains a movement entitled ""The Glorious Departure of Lolli and the Cortège of the Sun."" Besides his Symphony-Concerto and Scythian Suite, he also composed a piece commissioned by Paul Wittgenstein, as well as a ballet containing the movement ""Dance of the Knights,"" and a suite with a bell-filled Troika movement. He imitated Haydn in his Classical Symphony. For 10 points, name this Russian composer of The Love for Three Oranges and the Lieutenant Kije suite."	Sergei Sergeyevich Prokofiev	Symphony_No._6_(Beethoven)	False
23	"One section of this work details the combat between the army of High Priest Lib and his brother Shiz against King Coriantumr. The namesake of another of its sections took away Korihor's power of speech after outpreaching the lawyer Zeezrom. This work is said to have first been interpreted with a pair of seer stones called Urim and Thummim. One part of this text details the Jaredite civilization's existence in America. Much of it focuses on the war between the Nephites and the Lamanites. Its sections include the Book of Alma, the Book of Lehi, and the Book of Ether. It was supposedly originally written on ""reformed Egyptian"" on a set of golden plates. For 10 points, name this work revealed by the angel Moroni to Joseph Smith, a sacred text of the Church of Latter Day Saints."	The Book of Mormon: An Account Written by the Hand of Mormon upon Plates Taken from the Plates of Nephi	Book_of_Mormon	True
24	A class of proteins that contain a baculovirus internal repeat, including XIAP and hIAP1 and 2, are responsible for inhibiting this process, and that protein is inhibited by Smac and Omi. Protein 14-3-3controls this process, and is elevated in the cerebrospinal fluid in patients with CJD. Another series of proteins responsible for regulating this process contain some combination of domains BH1 through 4; the prototype of that family is Bcl-2. Methods of assaying for this process include watching for the exclusion of the dye tryphan blue or nick-end labelling via the TUNEL assay. This process occurs interdigitally during limb development, during selection of T-cells, and exactly 191 times during the development of C. elegans. For 10 points, name this process, known as programmed cell death.	 apoptosis [accept programmed cell death before said]	Protein_folding	False
25	One prominent commentator on this work, Rouge Inkstone, is the namesake of the best-known manuscripts of its first 80 chapters. Some comic relief in this work is provided by the visits of the protagonist's rural relatives Ban'er and Granny Liu. Much of this novel is set in an area built at the instigation of the eldest of the four Springs, called Prospect Garden. Its protagonist's primary handmaidens are known as Aroma and Skybright. One of its protagonist's love interests is the reincarnation of the Crimson Pearl Fairy. Its protagonist is a reincarnation of a piece of jade not used by Nuwa, amd marries Xue Baochai but cannot forget his true love, Lin Daiyu. For 10 points, name this Cao Xueqin [shway-cheen] novel that centers on Baoyu, the heir to the declining Jia family.	Dream of the Red Chamber [accept Red Chamber Dream or Hónglóu mèng; or The Story of the Stone; or Shítóu jì]	Dream_of_the_Red_Chamber	True
26	One author from this country wrote a work about a sculptor attempting to maintain the identity of James White, and another work about UNESCO engineer Walter Faber. Another author from this country wrote a novel whose title painter falls in love with both the widow Judith and the Count's daughter Dorothea. The home of the authors of I'm Not Stiller and Green Henry also produced the author of a play in which Dr. von Zahnd looks over patients who call themselves Newton and Einstein. It is also the setting of a work whose title character, the son of Walter Furst, helps Baumgarten escape and saves his son from prison for refusing to bow to Gessler's cap. For 10 points, name this country, the home of Max Frisch, Gottfried Keller, Friedrich Durrenmatt, and the local hero William Tell.	Switzerland	William_Tell	False
27	"This poet noted that he ""had no human fears"" in a quintet of poems that centered on ""A Maid whom there were none to praise / And very few to love."" In another poem, he called his home country ""a fen / Of stagnant waters"" and wished that ""Milton!"" ""shouldst be living at this hour."" In one poem, he described objects which ""flash upon that inward eye"" and provide ""the bliss of solitude."" In another poem, he wrote that he'd ""rather be / A Pagan suckled in a creed outworn."" This author included ""She dwelt among the untrodden ways"" and ""A slumber did my spirit seal"" in his Lucy poems. For 10 points, name this poet of ""London, 1802"" and ""The World is Too Much with Us,"" who described seeing ""a host of golden daffodils"" in ""I Wandered Lonely as a Cloud"" and wrote ""Tintern Abbey."""	William Wordsworth	Elegy_Written_in_a_Country_Churchyard	False
28	Particles of dielectric materials may be separated in a fractionation method that uses a nonuniform one of these. Band-bending occurs because it varies linearly in a depletion layer. Symmetric top molecules undergo line-splitting in their microwave spectrum due to the application of one of these. Modulators for active Q-switching lasers rely on an effect in which crystals lacking inversion symmetry become birefringent in linear proportion to the magnitude of one of these. Its flux through a surface is proportional to enclosed charge, and its curl is equal to the negative time partial of the magnetic field. Its magnitude is proportional to one-over-r for a line charge, and it is proportional to one over r squared for a point charge. For 10 points, name this vector field given in units of volts per meter.	 electric field [or E field]	Magnetic_field	False
29	"One author from this country wrote a six-volume poetry collection called ""Sleepless Nights,"" and another wrote a Faust-like work whose title is given as The Wish or as Loftur the Sorceror. One author from this country wrote The Black Cliffs and Guest the One-Eyed. One novel by an author from this country features the Parliament member Bui Arland and an organ teacher at whose house the ideas of communism and anarchism are introduced to the girl Ugla. Another novel written by an author from this country follows the sheep farmer and poet Bjartur. Gunnar and Njal and the antiheroic Grettir the Strong all feature in works written in this country. For 10 points, name this nation, home to the author of Independent People, Halldor Laxness, as well as many writers of sagas."	Iceland	Faust	False
30	Drug discovery research employs a synthesis that produces alpha-phosphonate examples of this functionality from a carbonyl, a hydrophosphoryl compound, and a primary one of these. A test for this functionality, which can discern between their degrees of substitution, employs aqueous sodium hydroxide and benzenesulfonyl chloride and is named for Hinsburg. CO2 is released upon the addition of hydrazoic acid through an isocyanate intermediate in one reaction to form them. PPh3 is used to reduce azides to this functionality in the Staudinger ligation. The best known synthesis of these compounds reacts primary alkyl halides with potassium phthalimide, and is named for Gabriel. For 10 points, name this functionality whose members possess a nitrogen with three single bonds to substituents.	 amines	Azide	False
31	"This composer wrote a symphonic suite in which the fairy Gul-Nazar rescues a gazelle from a bird. One of his works uses the unusual time signatures 2/1 and 3/1 in its final movement, and its Andante lugubre first movement alternates a woodwind theme with a cello rendition of the hymn ""An Angel Cried Out."" The fourth movement of one work by this composer opens with five cadenzas played over percussion rolls and sees violins, violas, and cellos played quasi guitara. That work's third movement nearly repeats its first save in key and instrumentation, an asturian dance. For 10 points, name this composer of Russian Easter Overture and Capriccio Espagnol as well as a suite with movements like ""The Kalendar Prince"" and ""The Sea and Sinbad's Ship"" called Scheherezade."	Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakov	Cello	False
32	"The line-of-sight integral of electron column density to one of these objects is their ""dispersion measure,"" and so-called ""timing experiments"" done with these objects are employed to detect the Gravitational Wave Background. One of these objects was the first known star save the Sun to possess planets. Turbulence in the interstellar medium is commonly probed using the radiation from these objects. One class of these objects is thought to originate from two mechanisms, one of which is the ""spin-up"" of low-mass X-ray binaries, the ""millisecond"" variety. Another class of them rotates due to the decay of a powerful B-field. Starquakes are thought to cause glitches in the periods of these objects. For 10 points, name this class of neutron stars that emits electromagnetic radiation."	 pulsars [prompt on neutron stars]	Neutron_star	True
33	The set for one play by this author consists of a chair in front of a concentration camp guard tower; that play centers on the intellectual Quentin and his love for Holga. Another play by this author drew on the same interviews Studs Terkel used for Hard Times and borrows the name of a one-day president of GE during the Depression, Ted Quinn. This author wrote a play about the Red Hook neighborhood of Brooklyn, where Eddie Carbone lives. This author of After the Fall and The American Clock also wrote a work in which Giles Corey dies by being crushed by rocks when he refuses to plea aye or nay. For 10 points, name this author of A View from a Bridge who created the characters Judge Hathorne, John Proctor, and Linday, Happy, and Biff Loman in The Crucible and Death of a Salesman.	Arthur Miller	Death_of_a_Salesman	False
34	The family that contains this protein also contains a protein suspected to soften the pubis symphysis, which peaks during the first trimester of pregnancy and at delivery. Regulatory sequences of the gene that codes for this protein include MafA and the CAAT enhancer binding element, and NeuroD1 regulates its synthesis. The release of this hormone occurs in a three- to six-minute rhythm, and HGH induces the liver to secrete one of a family of growth factors with sequence similarity to it. This hormone is released following IP3 binding to the ER, triggering calcium release. For 10 points, name this hormone, secreted by the beta cells in the pancreas, which induces tissues to take up glucose and is administered to sufferers of diabetes.	 insulin	Protein_folding	False
35	"This author tried to integrate his unfinished religious epic poem The End of Satan into his historical poetry collection The Legend of Centuries. In another of this author's works, a fisherman tries to salvage a steam engine in order to marry Deruchette. A poem by this author promises that he won't look at the ""distant sails going down at Harfleur."" This poet of ""Tomorrow, at Dawn"" wrote a work in which a goat can spell ""Phoebus,"" leading the townspeople to believe its owner is a witch. Another work by this author features the evil Thenardiers and their three children, Azelma, Eponine, and Gavroche. For 10 points, name this author who created characters like Esmerelda, Inspector Javert, Quasimodo, and Jean Valjean, in Hunchback of Notre Dame and Les Miserables."	Victor Hugo	Jean_Valjean	False
36	This figure ordained that Bidon and Cleobis would die in their sleep as a reward for pulling the cart of this figure's priestess Cydippe. Chelone refused to attend this figure's wedding, causing the groom to turn Chelone into a tortoise. Pelias murdered his grandmother in a temple dedicated to this figure, provoking her ire. This figure prevented her child Eileithyia from breaking her crouch, which caused Alcmene great pain by prolonging the birth of a figure whom this figure pulled away from her breast as he nursed, thus creating the Milky Way. After this goddess assigned the hundred-eyed giant Argus Panoptes to guard Io, she placed his eyes in the tail of the peacock, which became her bird. For 10 points, name this cow-eyed queen of the heavens, the jealous wife of Zeus.	Hera [prompt on Juno]	Hera	True
37	"The narrator of one work by this author notes that ""brutish necessity wipes its hands on the napkin of a dirty cause."" In that poem by this man, the ""colonel of carrion"" cries ""Waste no compassion on these separate dead!"" while the narrator asks ""Where shall I turn, divided to the vein?"" In a play by this author, one character remarks that to escape from life is the most dangerous crime of all. That play by this author centers on a charcoal burner named Makak who shares a jail cell with Tigre and Souris. Maud and Dennis Plunkett move to the islands to retire in another of his works, which sees characters like Hector, Achille, and Philoctete mirror the events of ancient Greek epics. For 10 points, name this author of ""A Far Cry from Africa,"" Dream on Monkey Mountain, and Omeros, a St. Lucian poet."	Derek Alton Walcott	Invisible_Man	False
38	One character in this work dreams about a man with a rifle on Petrin Hill who helps three suicidal people kill themselves; after that dream, she spits in the face of an engineer during sex. The story about Yakov Stalin's death is told in one section, in which a mugging in Cambodia results in the death of Marie-Claude's husband, who had been seeing a character trying to escape kitsch. One character in this work becomes a window washer after referring to the Oedipus tale in an anti-Communist newspaper article, and his dog Karenin dies of cancer shortly before its owners die in a truck accident. For 10 points, name this book about the experiences of Tereza, Tomáš and Sabina during and after the Prague Spring, a work by Milan Kundera.	The Unbearable Lightness of Being	The_Unbearable_Lightness_of_Being	True
39	"In one work by this man, Dirck's horse Roos gives out near Hasselt and Joris's dies after sighting a ""dome-spire"" by Dalhem, but the speaker's ""horse without peer,"" Roland, survives the titular trip. The speaker claims he could ""blend all hideous sins, as in a cup"" because he has ""God's warrant"" in another poem by this man. This author of ""How They Brought the Good News from Ghent to Aix"" paired ""Johannes Agricola in Meditation"" in Madhouse Cells with a work whose speaker claims ""And yet God has not said a word!"" after he strangles a woman with her own hair. The speaker of another of his poems notes that its title figure, the subject of a Fra Pandolf painting, ""had a heart too soon made glad."" For 10 points, name this British author of ""Porphyria's Lover"" and ""My Last Duchess."""	Robert Browning	Speaker_of_the_United_States_House_of_Representatives	False
40	A standoff between the navies of this country and the United States during a hurricane at Apia left over a hundred dead. A rebellion in one of this country's colonies was led by Kinjikitile Ngwale and was known as the Maji Maji rebellion. In 1897, this country seized territory, including Tsingtao, that would later be given to Japan in the Shandong settlement. One of this country's colonies saw the Battle of Waterberg, which led to the Herero and Namaqua genocide. One of this country's leaders gave up Zanzibar in return for a narrow piece of land giving access to the Zambezi river, the Caprivi strip. For 10 points, name this country that colonized Nauru, Togoland and Cameroon, as well as Tanganyika and the future Namibia, all of which it lost by the Treaty of Versailles.	Germany [or Deutschland]	Zambezi	False
41	"This author satirized common customs as Jonathan Oldstyle in writing nine letters to the Morning Chronicle. Travel abroad to consult the manuscripts of Columbus led this man to write ""A Chronicle of the Conquest of Granada."" The title character is called upon to contrive a defense for Aben Habuz's realm in one story by this author, who also wrote about Gottfried Wolfgang's attempt to regain mental stability in ""The Adventure of the German Student."" This author of Bracebridge Hall and Tales of the Alhambra also wrote under the pen name ""Geoffrey Crayon."" For 10 points, name this American author of ""The Devil and Tom Walker"" and creator of Katrina van Tassel and Ichabod Crane in ""The Legend of Sleepy Hollow."""	Washington Irving	The_Legend_of_Sleepy_Hollow	False
42	A narrator of one of this man's novels encounters the Schneils, a pair of married linguists, while hosting the show The Tower of Babel. This author describes several men of the Machigengua tribe in that work, whose other narrator is a man with a large facial birthmark named Saul Zuratas. In another of his novels, the Poet loses his virginity to Golden Toes, and Porfirio Cava is caught stealing a chemistry test. That novel by this man sees the Slave killed by Jaguar, the leader of the Circle at the Leoncia Prado Academy. This author of The Storyteller and The Time of the Hero wrote a novel whose narrator works on soap operas at a radio station, where he meets Pedro Camacho. For 10 points, name this Peruvian author of Aunt Julia and the Scriptwriter.	Mario Vargas Llosa [or Jorge Mario Pedro Vargas Llosa]	Aunt_Julia_and_the_Scriptwriter	False
43	"A parody of this author sees the speaker break his dancing partner's leg in Kenneth Koch's ""Variations on a theme of"" this poet. One of this man's poems claims that ""Saxifrage is my flower that splits the rocks,"" while another describes the speaker admiring his own buttocks and claiming ""I was born lonely, and I am best so!"" That poem ends, ""who shall say I am not the happy genius of my household,"" and its author mentions a ""contagious hospital"" and depicts bushes ""gripping down and beginning to awaken"" in another poem. This author who pilfered objects that were ""delicious / so sweet / and so cold"" also wrote of an object ""glazed with rain water."" For 10 points, name this poet of ""To Asphodel, that Greeny Flower,"" ""Spring and All,"" ""This is just to Say,"" and ""The Red Wheelbarrow""?"	William Carlos Williams	Speaker_of_the_United_States_House_of_Representatives	False
44	Along with dielectric constant, this property is diminished in the pyrochlore phase of a material. Tiersten developed a system of energy balances as an IEEE model for their activity. This behavior can be explained by coupling the equation setting displacement equal to permittivity times electric field with Hooke's law, then looking at the tensor elements. Materials with a center of symmetry cannot undergo this effect, which can be explained by noting that a change in the dipole configuration or density in a bulk material is accompanied by a change in the surface charge. For 10 points, name this property discovered in Rochelle salts by Pierre and Jacques Curie, found in materials like quartz in which an electric response results from stress or strain on a material.	 piezoelectricity	Stress_(mechanics)	False
45	"His full name appears only once in his works, on a sign hanging from a tree branch in his painting Adam and Eve. While visiting Italy, this artist created the Feast of Rose Garlands, which served as the altarpiece for the San Bartolomeo Chapel. This artist created a self-portrait in which he holds a hand to his fur collar while a golden inscription to his right notes that he has ""portrayed himself in colors aged twenty-eight years."" Another of his works features a sleeping dog and a supine lion in front of the title character, who writes at his desk. He also depicted a ponderous angel sitting near a truncated rhombohedron and a magic square. For 10 points, name this artist of St. Jerome in His Study and Melencolia I, whose other woodcuts include The Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse."	Albrecht Dürer	Adam	False
46	"The KAN was one organization founded by leaders of this movement, as were K-231 and a revival of Junák, a scouting organization. A meeting discussing this movement was held at Cierná-nad-Tisou. The end of this movement was protested by Jan Palach with self-immolation. Oldrich Cernik and Ota Šik were leaders of it, and Ludvík Vaculík wrote a manifesto supporting it, the ""Two Thousand Words."" The aims of this movement were largely carried out by the Action Program. It was followed by a period of ""normalization"" under Gustav Husák. The policy of ""socialism with a human face"" was championed during this period by Alexander Dubcek, but it was soon ended by a Soviet crackdown. For 10 points, name this period of reform in 1968 Czechoslovakia."	Prague Spring [or Praska Jaro]	Prague_Spring	True
47	This artist depicted himself sleeping below grazing animals, fir trees, and a lilac sky in a painting inspired by his honeymoon. A fish holds a candle up to a red easel in the background of another of this man's works. This artist depicted the Eiffel Tower in the back window of a canvas that contains a self-portrait at an easel. This artist of The Poet Reclining and La Mariée created a 70-foot mosaic for Chicago called The Four Seasons. A green-clad man carries a sack below a burning synagogue in a work by this man whose central figure wears a prayer shawl. His most famous work shows the Tree of Life being held by a green-skinned man who looks past a small row of houses at a sheep. For 10 points, name this Vitebsk-born Jewish painter of White Crucifixion and I and the Village.	Marc Chagall [or Moshe Shagal]	Green	False
48	One protein in this pathway has a G20210A mutant. This pathway is aberrantly activated by anti-phospholipid antibodies, while one pathway to initiate it relies on high-molecular weight kininogen. The aPTT and PT tests can be used to determine if particular proteins in this pathway are defective; said proteins include Hageman factor and another whose mutation causes Christmas disease. Most of the proteins in this pathway are serine proteases that cleave each other, one of which is bound to von Willebrand factor. For 10 points, name this cascade that includes Factors V, VIII, IX, X, etc, responsible for stopping the flow of blood at wounds.	blood coagulation cascade [or blood clotting cascade; accept reasonable equivalents]	Coagulation	True
49	Later in this novel, the narrator sees one of his former coworkers killed by the police after being found selling dolls. This work's title character takes one of those dolls belonging to Tod Clifton and adds it to his pocket with Tarp's chain link. This work's narrator arrives in New York City as a result of his expulsion after bringing Mr. Norton to the Golden Day, and he brings with him eight letters from Mr. Bledsoe. The narrator of this work wins a scholarship to a public school along with a briefcase that he keeps with him in this novel. Ras the Exhorter becoming Ras the Destroyer as a member of the Brotherhood of this novel. For 10 points, name this novel that features a nameless black protagonist, a work by Ralph Ellison.	Invisible Man [Do not accept “The Invisible Man”]	Invisible_Man	True
50	This country began one conflict with a northern neighbor by advancing to Dhola, and it lost one of the largest tank battles in history at Chawinda. This state recaptured land in the Kargil War in a case prominently cited as disproving the Democratic Peace Theory. One war in this country began with the Treaty of Surbat, while another ended only with the intervention of the Holkars. Another series of conflicts in this nation began with the intrigues of Joseph Duplieux and ended with a decisive defeat for one side at the Battle of Wandiwash. Conflicts here have included the Carnatic wars, Mysore wars, and Maratha wars. For 10 points, identify this country which saw a victory for Robert Clive at the Battle of Plassey, as well as three battles of Panipat.	Republic of India [or Bharat]	World_War_I	False
51	The Thiemann operator is a candidate for this type of constraint, which would describe kinematics in quantum loop theory. Vector fields described by this adjective are obtained by rotating the gradient field components ninety degrees, and are important for determining equations of motion in phase space. Ehrenfest's theorem relates the time derivative of an observable with the commutator of this operator with that observable's operator. Cycles of this type touch every vertex of a graph once before returning to the starting vertex. When applied to wavefunctions, the operator of this type yields energy eigenvalues. For 10 points, give this term describing an operator that equals the sum of kinetic and potential energy, named for an Irish mathematician and represented by a capital H.	Hamiltonian	Four_color_theorem	False
52	"A compulsory youth group in this nation had a uniform of green shirts and khaki pants. Antonio de Spinola's book about this country ""and the Future"" helped spark a coup here led by the Armed Forces Movement, which then set up the Junta of National Salvation. The PIDE secret police was active in this country during a period where its legislature included a Corporative Chamber. Oscar Carmona became president of this nation after the 1926 revolution. Marcello Caetano's government here followed that of a former economics professor, and was ended by the Carnation Revolution. The Estado Nova was created here under the leadership of Antonio Salazar. For 10 points, name this country earlier ruled by the Braganza family, like its former colony of Brazil."	Portugal	Brazil	False
53	Removal of this organ from 740 World War II veterans saw twice the incidence of cardiovascular disease, perhaps because it releases monocytes during stresses on the heart. This organ is either absent or multiply expressed in patients with Ivemark Syndrome. It is surrounded by protective fibroelastic and serous coats. Like the kidney, this organ possesses Malphigian corpuscles, which are lymphocyte-containing follicles within one type of tissue in it. This organ is under the left side of the diaphragm, and becomes sequestered when trying to clear sickled cells. The marginal zone separates this organ's white and red pulp. For 10 points, name this lymphoid organ in which red blood cells are destroyed.	 the spleen	Red_blood_cell	False
54	One king of this name and number subdued rebellious forces in Argyll and gave up his claim to English land in the Peace of York; that ruler assisted the English barons in threatening King John. A pope of this name and number gave his blessing to William the Conquerer's invasion of England. Another ruler of this name and number had ministers like Dmitry Milyutin and Pyotr Shuvalov, and that ruler suppressed the January uprising in Poland. That same ruler also sold Alaska to the United States and set up the zemstvo system. That tsar of this name and number ended the Crimean War after succeeding Nicholas I. For 10 points, give the name and number of the tsar who was assassinated by People's Will after earlier undertaking the 1861 emancipation of the serfs.	Alexander II	Nicholas_II_of_Russia	False
55	"In the second act of one of this man's works, one character pretends to be the student Pereda and listens to the gypsy Preziosilla sing ""Al suon del tamburo."" In the final act of that work by this man, one character sings ""Pace, pace mio Dio"" before being stabbed in the heart by her brother Carlo. In addition to that work about the lovers Leonora and Alvaro, this man composed an opera whose title character rescues Fenena after promising to restore the Temple in ""Dio di Giuda;"" that opera also contains the Hebrew slave chorus ""Va, pensiero."" The second act of another of this man's operas contains the Triumphal March, which accompanies the return of Radames, who is buried alive with the title Ethiopian princess. For 10 points, identify this composer of La Forza del Destino, Nabucco and Aida."	Giuseppe Fortunino Francesco Verdi	Aida	False
56	One equation used to describe this process states that m a is equal to F x minus beta times the velocity vector plus eta of t. Levy stated that a process X is one of these if it is its own natural filtration and if X sub I times X sub J minus Kronecker sub ij times t for all I and J is a martingale. This physical process is the classical example of a Wiener process, and Feynman developed a thought experiment that uses a ratchet to derive work from this process. This process is described by the Langevin equation, while it is used to predict the size of molecules based on one of Einstein's Annus Mirabilis papers. It was first observed by its namesake via pollen grains in water. For 10 points, name this random movement of particles in a fluid.	 Brownian motion	Richard_Feynman	False
57	"This monarch requested that Clement XI issue the anti-Jansenist bull Vineam Domini. One his mistresses was implicated of witchcraft in the Affair of the Poisons. This ruler tried to install one of his sons by that mistress, Madame de Montspan, as regent for his son, but the Duke of Maine was arrested by this man's nephew, the Duke of Orleans. An invasion of the Netherlands by this ruler was ended with the Treaty of Nijmegen. His ministers included the Marquis de Louvois. This monarch was opposed by an alliance led by Leopold I and the Palatinate known as the League of Augsburg. This man made his son Philip of Anjou king of another nation after the death of Charles II, leading to the War of the Spanish Succession. For 10 points, name this French ""Sun King."""	 Louis XIV [prompt on Louis]	Philip_II_of_Spain	False
58	"The holiday of Zagmuk is sacred to this deity, who is also associated with the celestial object of Nibiru. Sometimes known as King of the Igigi, this figure was once called upon at a feast by Ansar, who gave him the name Asalluhi. ""House of the raised head"" is the translation of the name of his chief temple, Esagila. This figure tamed a winged dragon called the mushussu, which he then gave to his son Nabu. He is the son of Damkina and a figure who held Mummu with a nose-rope, Ea. He is the grandson of the sky god Anu, who gave him a bag of four winds to play with. For 10 points, name this deity who defeated Kingu and seized the Tablets of Destiny, the Babylonian god of thunderstorms who created human life after defeating Tiamat."	 Bel Marduk [accept Amar-utu; Meridug; Merodach; or Mardochaios]	Dragon	False
59	Dehydrating this compound forms an oxazole in the Robinson-Gabriel synthesis, and zinc compounds are used to generate them from thioesters in the Fukuyama coupling. Another reaction used to generate them uses thorium oxide to cyclize a dicarboxylic acid. Another method to create them uses a Lewis acid to create an acyl cloride, which undergoes an electrophilic aromatic substitution. In addition to the Ruzicka cyclization and the Friedel-Crafts reaction, these compounds can be created from secondary alcohols using the Jones reagent. They exist in an equilibrium with enols in a simple form of tautomerism. For 10 points, name these carbonyls that contain a carbon double bonded to an oxygen bound to two R groups.	 ketones	Acid	False
60	"This man's counterpoint teacher, André Gedalge, was the dedicatee of an A-minor piece by this man that includes movements like ""Modéré,"" ""Pantoum,"" and ""Passacaille."" This creator of a notable Piano Trio included movements like ""Night Moths"" and ""The Aubade of the Jester"" in his solo piano piece Mirrors. This composer wrote a piano piece in which each movement is based on an Aloysius Bertrand poem, which was written to be more difficult to play than Balakirev's Islamey. This composer of Gaspard de la nuit also wrote an impressionistic ballet based on a Longus romance, while his most famous work builds up to a crescendo as a repetitive ostinato rhythm is played on the snare drums. For 10 points, name this French composer of Daphnis et Chloe and Bolero."	Joseph-Maurice Ravel	Piano	False
61	One son of this deity whacked travelers with an iron club until Theseus killed him. This father of Periphetes was also the father of a firebreathing monster killed by Hercules named Cacus. The blinded Orion was guided to the East by this deity's follower Cedalion. This god also gave Harmonia her famous necklace upon her marriage to Cadmus. One son of this god was placed in a box and given to the daughters of Cecrops; that son of this god was born when Athena wiped this god's seed off her thigh and onto the ground. This father of Erecthonius caught his wife sleeping with Ares by constructing a net. He once fell from Olympus for nine days, resulting in his becoming lame. For 10 points, name this wife of Aphrodite and son of Hera and Zeus, the Greek god of the forge.	Hephaestus [or Hephaistos; accept Vulcan until “Greek”]	Ares	False
62	One model that explains the allosteric change in this protein is the Monod, Wyman, and Changeux model. The Koshland, Nemethy, and Filmer model states that one subunit's change in the structure of this protein promotes conformotional state changes in adjacent subunits. This molecule fluctuates between T and R states. 2,3-bi-phospho-glycerate and inositol hexa-phosphate act to promote the disassociation between this protein and the molecule that it most commonly binds to. The fact that the aforementioned disassociation is promoted when this protein is at low pHs is called the Bohr effect. The carbamation of its N-terminal amino groups allows this protein to carry carbon dioxide. For 10 points, name this iron-containing protein found in red blood cells, responsible for carrying oxygen.	 hemoglobin [accept Hb; or Hgb]	Protein_folding	False
63	"This man referred to those living on Banks Islands when discussing the ""illusion"" of the title entity in one work, while he compares how various groups in British Columbia related to the title Swaihwe object in another work. This author also discussed the Jivaro in his The Jealous Potter, but this author of The Way of the Masks may be better remembered for opposing Radcliffe-Brown with his ""alliance theory"" and for writing a work that opens by discussing the story of ""The Macaws and Their Nest."" That work is part of a longer one which studies the transformation of South American folk tales. For 10 points, name this French structural anthropologist and author of Triste Tropiques, Elementary Structures of Kinship and Mythologiques, which includes The Raw and the Cooked."	Claude Levi-Strauss	Claude_Lévi-Strauss	False
64	"A scene in this work at the Gate of Wisdom sees a priest convince the protagonist that women have trivial opinions. In one of its scenes, a character falsely claims that he rescued the protagonist from a snake, after which three women hand the liar a rock and padlock his mouth shut. This opera features the famous ""Tremble not, my dear son"" aria, and its incredibly demanding aria ""Der Hoelle Rache"" requires a range up to F6 for its soprano role. A man dressed in bird's feathers in this opera is Papageno, who is a servant of the villain. The plot of this opera centers on the love of Tamino for the maid Pamina, and the attempts to thwart the relationship by the Queen of the Night. For 10 points, name this work that features an instrument which can change men's hearts, an opera by Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart."	The Magic Flute [or Die Zauberfloete]	The_Magic_Flute	True
65	Sodium-mediated antiport membrane proteins in these structures can be passively inhibited through the use of digitalis extracts which block sodium-potassium ATPases. They are mechanically coupled to plasma membrane dihydropyridine receptors. Though not found in neurons, they possess ryanodine receptors which can be activated when phospholipase C cleaves PIP2 into DAG and the signaling molecule inositol trisphosphate. Depending on the cell type, extensions of these structures form dyads or triads with adjacent T-tubules and they contain the protein calsequestrin. For 10 points, name these structures found within muscle cells which store intercellular calcium and are a modified form of an organelle that is continuous with the nuclear envelope and comes in a rough form.	sarcoplasmic reticulum [or SR; prompt on endoplasmic reticulum or ER] 	Cell_membrane	False
66	"This author asserted ""the air is a spongy body / a promiscuous faceless being"" in ""The Balcony"" and asked ""Do I believe in man / or in the stars?"" in another poem. The speaker comments, ""I travel my way through the body of sound"" in a poem framed by the image of ""a fountain of crystal, a poplar of water"". This author wrote about ""racing among my thoughts in the lighted stars"" in the poem ""Vrindaban,"" which was written contemporaneously with Eastern Slope and Eagle or Sun?. He analyzed the pacuchos in a collection, which includes ""The Day of the Dead"" and ""The Conquest of Colonialism"", and another poem is structured around the Aztec calendar. For 10 points, name this author of ""Sunstone"" who discussed Mexican culture in The Labyrinth of Solitude."	Octavio Paz	Elegy_Written_in_a_Country_Churchyard	False
67	An individual from this country was likely responsible for the Dulcie September shooting in Paris, and collaborated with private American interests to organize Operation Babushka, formally known as the IFF, which focused heavily on discrediting dissidents in this country and was overseen by Jack Abramoff. Craig Williamson's trail of death while serving this country's government may have extended to the murder of Swedish PM Olaf Palme nearly ten years after an event recounted in Joe Slovo's No Middle Road broke out here as a result of language-based education laws. UNSCR-134 condemned an incident in this site of the Church Street Bombing that saw tension over the Cato Manor killings lead police to fire on protesters in the Sharpeville Massacre. For 10 points, identify this country which imprisoned members of the Spear of the Nation on Robben Island and saw the Soweto Uprising during the long struggle against Apartheid.	South Africa	Apartheid	False
68	In one story, this figure descended from heaven on a rope of cobwebs and transformed into an ocelot. He sent his servants Water Woman, Water Monster, and Cane and Conch to assist Wind in bringing music to the world from the house of the sun. He created a race of giant acorn-eating people and lost his left foot while battling Cipactli. As the first sun, he was knocked out of the sky by his rival, but this figure turned into a Jaguar and in turn ate the second sun. He wears obsidian sandals to show his connection with matter. For 10 points, name this rival of Quetzalcoatl, the Aztec god of night, who possesses a smoking mirror.	Tezcatlipoca	Quetzalcoatl	False
69	The Sivers mechanism is used to model one type of asymmetry of this property, and this property gives its name to a type of disordered material modeled by the Sherrington-Kirpatrick model. The relaxation and transport of it is the basis for Giant Magnetoresistance sandwich structures used in hard disks, and the three canonical operators for this quantity are obtained by multiplying h-bar over 2 times the Pauli matrices. Heisenberg proposed these kinds of chains as a model for magnetism, and the experiment that led to its discovery as a quantum phenomenon used a furnace to fire silver atoms through an inhomogeneous magnetic field with the results consistent with only two possible values of this property. For 10 points, identify this quantity investigated by the Stern-Gerlach experiment which has integer values for bosons and half-integer values for fermions.	spin [prompt on angular momentum]	Stern–Gerlach_experiment	False
70	"One section of this work wants ""sound of water over a rock / Where the hermit-thrush sings in the pine trees . . . But there is no water"". Another section asks the reader to consider a man ""who was once as handsome and tall as you"", while other characters in this work include ""The typist home at teatime"" and an unshaven merchant from Smyrna, Mr. Eugenides. Early in this work, Marie recounts a sled ride with her cousin, the archduke, while another section has the refrain ""hurry up please it's time"" interrupting thoughts, ostensibly over a game of chess. In the first stanza of this poem, the poet discusses how lilacs are risen out of mud and memory is mixed with desire, and it ends with the refrain shantih shantih shantih. Beginning with ""April is the cruellest month"", for 10 points, name this long poem in five sections by T.S. Eliot."	"""The Waste Land"""	The_Waste_Land	True
71	This artist only completed the preparatory sketches for the epic Opening of the Doors of the Spanish Inquisition. This artist showed a cart stopped next to a gray building emitting white smoke in The Lime Kiln. He painted an unusual still-life of severed limbs called Anatomical Pieces, and he featured horses in his paintings Derby at Epsom and Horse Frightened By Lightning. A horse rearing away from an unseen attacker appears in his The Charging Chasseur. He studied bodies in the morgue of the Hospital Beaujon for his most famous work, which sees a man waving a red handkerchief on the top right and a bloody hatchet implies cannibalism. For 10 points, name this French Romantic painter of The Raft of the Medusa.	Theodore Gericault	The_Raft_of_the_Medusa	False
72	This architect designed a museum that was eighty percent inside a mountain forcing him to carve a tunnel through the mountain for the entrance. Along with the Miho Museum, he designed a glass pavilion that would let in light meant to symbolize hope for the JFK Presidential Library. Another building is coated in white metal and includes a giant cylinder standing above Lake Erie. A different work by this architect was added onto a building by John Russell Pope. In addition to designing the John Hancock Building and the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame, this architect is famous for a large structure in the Cour Napolean. For 10 points, name this architect of the East Wing of the National Gallery and the Glass Pyramid at the Louvre.	Ieoh Ming Pei	Glass	False
73	"At the beginning of one of this author's plays The Frog enters as the narrator and exclaims, ""Aeschylus Me!"" after sneezing. This author wrote about ""Rude Bwoy"" and Brother Aaron trying to protect their community in O Babylon!. Another work includes a scene where a man presides over a trial condemning Abraham Lincoln before he beheads the white goddess, and this author wrote about a man outwitting ""The Planter"" in Ti-Jean and His Brothers. This author wrote about Corporal Lestrade chasing the prisoner Makak through a hallucinatory journey in his play Dream on Monkey Mountain. For 10 points, name this author who re-imagined The Odyssey set on Saint Lucia in his epic poem Omeros."	Derek Walcott	Aeschylus	False
74	This instrument plays a long solo over a timpani roll at the beginning of Sibelius' Symphony No. 1. This instrument evolved from the older chalmeau, a word that also names this instrument's lower register. Multiple concertos for two soloists playing this instrument were composed by Franz Krommer, while virtuosos of this instrument include Julian Bliss and Sabine Meyer. Mozart's concerto in A minor for this instrument was written for Anton Stadler, while Stravinsky wrote the Ebony Concerto for Woody Herman. A glissando for this instrument opens Gershwin's Rhapsody in Blue and it represents the cat in Peter and the Wolf. For 10 points, identify this single-reed woodwind performed by Benny Goodman.	clarinet	Rhapsody_in_Blue	False
75	The relationship between stress and strain in these entities is modeled by the Glen-Nye flow law. The equilibrium line altitude is the long term balance point along one of these, and a tower on one of these is known as a serac.A type of particles created by these entities, when blown by the wind, are known as loess. The Malaspina one of these is an example of the Piedmont variety of these objects. Sharp ridges formed by these are called arêtes, and material deposited directly from these structures is known as a till, while material removed from these objects by mass wasting can form a cirque. Two main types of these are contintental and alpine, and whale shaped hills formed by these are known as drumlins. Leaving behind debris accumulations calle moraines, for 10 points, name these large masses of ice.	Glaciers	Glacier	True
76	Although Georg Geissler was the second author on the paper introducing this reaction, he is never referred to as a namesake of this reaction. One alternative to this reaction uses a compound obtained in the Arbuzov rearrangement; that alternative transforms carbanions into olefins with E-selectivity and is named after Emmons, Wadsworth, and Horner. Another modification to this reaction adds lithium salts to create the threo version of the betaine intermediate, which again creates E-selectivity, instead of the usual Z-selectivity, in the product of that Schlosser modification. For 10 points, what is this reaction that forms olefins from ketones and phosphonium ylides, named after a German chemist?	Wittig reaction [or Wittig olefination]	Wittig_reaction	True
77	In this novel, Xius dies of shock after refusing an offer of two bags of money to buy his house, because it reminds him of his dead wife Yolanda. In one incident, roosters are gathered to please a visiting bishop who loves cockscomb soup, but ultimately the bishop only waves a blessing from his steamship and doesn't come on shore. Father Amador performs a haphazard autopsy when Dr. Dionisio Iguaran is gone, and later Colonel Lazaro Aponte checks on the time of his domino game rather than investigating two men in Clotilde Armenta's milk shop, who are waiting for the son of Placida Linero. The title event of this novel is precipitated by Bayardo San Roman returning his wife Angela to her family on their wedding night. For 10 points, name this novel in which the Vicario Brothers murder Santiago Nasar, a work by Gabriel Garcia Marquez.	Chronicle of a Death Foretold [accept Crónica de una muerte anunciada]	Chronicle_of_a_Death_Foretold	True
78	The frame story of this novel begins with a man who had had a torrid love affair in London attempting to get some time in the country by renting a home. That character later has a dream in which he slams a window down on the arm of a ghost who attempts to get into his room. A different dream in this novel sees one character expelled from both heaven and hell, which she equates with the titular place of this novel. Lockwood attempts to rent Thrushcross Grange, although it hasn't been well-taken care of by the maid Nelly Dean. One character in this novel is taken in by Earnshaw, whose son Hindley hates him; he in turn abuses Hareton, who marries Catherine Linton. For 10 points, name this novel about the mutually destructive love of Catherine Earnshaw and Heathcliff, a novel by Emily Bronte.	Wuthering Heights	Wuthering_Heights	True
79	"Elliott Antokoletz argues that a certain treaty inspired this composer's ""expansion in range"" technique in his third string quartet, which begins with sections called ""prima parte"" and ""seconda parte"" and introduced his namesake pizzicato. He wrote a work based on a colinda in which nine sons are turned into stags, while another piece opens with a group of ""Unison Melodies"" and ends with six pieces dedicated to Harriet Cohen. This composer of Cantata Profana wrote a work parodying Shostakovich's ""invasion"" theme in the ""intermezzo interrotto"" fourth movement and wrote a collection of 153 instructional piano pieces titled Mikrokosmos. He wrote an opera ending when Judith opens the seventh door of the title location to uncover the three former wives of her husband. For 10 points, name this composer of Concerto for Orchestra and Duke Bluebeard's Castle who collected Hungarian folk songs."	Bela Bartok	Dmitri_Shostakovich	False
80	An equation stating that the square of one measure of this quantity is equal to square of the band gap minus the square of the homopolar band gap was developed by Phillips and van Vechten. The principle of equalization of this quantity states that in a bond, each atom's value for this quantity will be the geometric mean of the atoms' original values; that principle was developed by Sanderson, who computed this quantity as the ratio of atomic number to atomic volume, divided by what would be expected from a linear interpolation of those values for inert gases. The first ionization energy and electron affinity are averaged to obtain the Mulliken scale for it, and the Pauling scale assigns fluorine a value of four. For 10 points, name this measure of an atom's ability to attract electrons to itself.	electronegativity	Electronegativity	True
81	"A servant in this play is forced to lie about the availability of cucumbers at the market because another character eats all of the sandwiches before the guests arrive. One character in this play notes that Lady Harbury looks ""twenty years younger"" after the death of her husband. This play opens with the sound of piano playing in an apartment on Half Moon Street. Miss Prism and Doctor Chaucible pass the afternoon in a garden and discuss morality in this play, before another character notes that one should know everything, or nothing. That character is Lady Bracknell, who grills a character who enjoys ""Bunburying"" on his suitability for her ward. Also concerning Cecily and Algernon, for 10 points, name this Oscar Wilde play whose title refers to Gwendolen's desire for a husband of a certain name."	The Importance of Being Earnest	The_Importance_of_Being_Earnest	True
82	"Toro Zambrano was forced to join this country's independence movement after his colleagues abruptly jumped up on tabletops and began shouting ""we want a junta!"", while its tradition of nefarious coups can be traced to the Conspiracy of the Three Antonios. It briefly devolved into an anarchic kleptocracy known as ""war to the death"" period that saw the Pincheira brothers pilfer almost 10% of its total material wealth. This country's patria vieja ended after Mariano Osorio's forces were crushed when Rafael Maroto ordered the Talaveras regiment to hurl itself at an entrenched position. This site of the Figueroa Mutiny and the Battle of Rancagua weathered the Tanquero uprising and the Cuban Packages scandal before its president, Salvador Allende, was deposed by Augusto Pinochet. For 10 points, name this country historically ruled with fluctuating stability from Santiago."	Chile	Augusto_Pinochet	False
83	"One offensive ordered by this monarch was blunted by the Water Line erected decades earlier by Maurice of Nassau, but still prompted his enemies to lynch the De Witt brothers for instigating the ""Disaster Year"", or Rampjaar. One of this ruler's generals had a major rivalry with the Count of Montecuccoli, while another defeated Francisco Melo after a bold march through a mountain pass to break the siege of Rocroi. This ruler's territories were defended by a modification of the trace italienne that relied upon a pentagonal ravelin system, designed by his greatest military mind, Vauban. This monarch relied on the command of Turenne and the Prince of Conde to win clashes like the Battle of the Dunes, which led to the Treaty of the Pyrenees. Forced to accept the Treaty of Ryswick, for 10 points, name this impetus behind the War of Devolution and the War of the Grand Alliance, a long-reigning Frenchman known as the ""Sun King""."	Louis XIV	Treaty_of_Versailles	False
84	"This author wrote an epilogue that begins, ""My work is finished now: no sword, nor fire, nor future / is capable of laying waste to it."" The speaker of one poem asserts, ""If Memnon's mother, if Achilles' mother, mourned for their sons"" then ""sad Elegia"" must ""unbind thy woeful hair in grief"" to mourn for Tibullus. In a scene from one of his works, Tereus rips out the tongue of Philomela to prevent her from reporting a rape. This poet parodied the opening of The Aeneid in the first poem of his collection Amores, and he mourned his exile in Tomis in his collection Tristia. This poet's best-known work ends with a description of the apotheosis of Julius Caesar and includes the stories of Pyramus and Thisbe and Pygmalion. For 10 points, name this Roman poet who wrote The Metamorphoses."	Publius Ovidius Naso	Ovid	True
85	"In polytropic equations, the pressure is given as proportional to this quantity raised to some power, while the virial expansion writes the pressure over the temperature in terms of powers of this quantity. In cosmology, the quantity ""3 times the square of the Hubble constant over quantity 8 pi times the gravitational constant,"" is known as the ""critical"" type of this quantity. The time-derivative of this quantity balances the divergence of its flux in fluid continuity equations. This quantity appears multiplied by both the square of the velocity and the gravitational acceleration times the height as a counterbalance to the pressure in Bernoulli's equation. Multiplying the volume and gravitational acceleration in the expression for buoyant force, for 10 points, identify this term which denotes how much of something there is per unit volume."	density	Mass	False
86	Autoantibodies attack the alpha-3 chains of one type of this protein in Goodpasture's Syndrome. Substitution of serine for cysteine at position 1564 of the alpha-5 chain of that type of this protein leads to a severe form of Alport Syndrome. Along with laminins, type IV of this protein forms a two-dimensional mesh in the basal lamina. This protein primarily consists of a triple helix of Gly-X-Y repeats, where X and Y are typically proline and hydroxyproline. Type I of this protein is secreted by chondrocytes and osteoblasts, and is mineralized to form bone matrix. For 10 points, name this most abundant protein in the human body, whose high tensile strength makes it ideal in tendons and skin.	collagen	Protein_folding	False
87	"This architect used a giant sculpture of binoculars as both the pedestrian and vehicle entrance of his Chiat/Day Building. He created a building originally nicknamed Fred and Ginger after Fred Astaire and Ginger Rodgers. This architect included the ""Sky Church"" room in one building and he designed the Pritzker Pavilion in Millennium Park. In addition to designing the Dancing House of Prague he designed the Pritzker Pavilion for Millennium Park. Jeff Koons' sculpture Puppy lies outside one of his best known buildings, which was built along the Nervion River and is made of reflective titanium panels resembling fish scales. For 10 points, name this Canadian architect who designed the Walt Disney Concert Hall in Los Angeles and the Guggenheim in Bilbao."	Frank Gehry	Los_Angeles	False
88	This figure once carried off a nymph named Leuke, who metamorphosed into a white poplar, becoming sacred to this god. This figure employs a doorman named Aiakos to hold the golden keys that unlocked the door to his palace, and he is in charge of the Oneroi, who bring dreams. This god was also involved in a love affair with Menthe, who became mint. Often depicted with a staff with a bird on the tip, this god is assisted in one of his tasks by men like Rhadymanthys and Minos. In order to help him slay the Medusa, this god lends Perseus his invisibility helmet. In a more famous myth, a pomegranate from this God's orchard ensures that his wife will have to return to him every year; that wife is Persephone. For 10 points, name this brother of Poseidon and Zeus, the Greek god of the dead.	Hades [or Aidoneus]	Minos	False
89	Pundalik sets out a brick for this god to sit on in the guise of Vithoba after he locates his wife. Indradyumna asked Vishvakarma to make a limbless log statue of this god. He married the sixteen thousand one hundred maiden captives of Narakasura, adding to a list of wives which included Jambavati. After being raised by Yasoda and Nanda he killed his uncle Kamsa, while his siblings include Subhadra and Balarama. Jayadeva's Gita Govinda recounts his affairs with Radha and the gopis. This god gives his army to Duryodhana though he serves as charioteer to Arjuna, his conversational partner in the Bhagavad Gita. For 10 points, name this Hindu deity, usually depicted with blue skin.	Krishna	Bhagavad_Gita	False
90	In one work by this author, a man named Gorgibus sees his daughter and niece, the two title characters, fall in love with two impostors who pretend to be wealthy socialites while in another work, the author acted out the part of Sganarelle the servant during on stage performances. Besides those two early works, The Affected Ladies and The Flying Doctor, this playwright also composed plays in which a doctor takes advantage of the hypochondria of the titular character and another where Arnolphe enrolls Agnes in the titular institution. He is perhaps better known for a play in which the titular character is taken away by an officer after trying to con Orgon. For 10 points, identify this French playwright of The Imaginary Invalid, The School for Wives, and Tartuffe.	Molière [or Jean-Baptiste Poquelin]	Tartuffe	False
91	In this novel, the young Spanish girl Mariequita acts as a foil to the main character who herself has two young sons named Etienne and Raoul. Doctor Mandelet is one of the few characters in the novel that suspects the main character of committing affairs, while Mademoiselle Reisz knows definitively that the main character has had affair with Robert Lebrun. The main character, the wife of Leonce, is also romanced by Alcee Arobin, the most. promiscuous man of Grand Isle, which eventually leads her to drowning herself in the Gulf of Mexico. Edna Pontellier breaks from the social constraints of females in the South in, for 10 points, what 1899 novel, the most famous by author Kate Chopin?	The Awakening	The_Awakening_(Chopin_novel)	True
92	Gilli's studies of the transition state forms of these entities employed their resonance-assisted versions in 1-(X-phenylazo)-2-naphthols. The migration of a proton along one of these provides one step in Grotthuss diffusion, which helps explain why they are grouped with related oscillating ion interactions. These interactions can form clathrate-like cages to separate two types of molecules. They occur over a range of 2.2 to 2.5 Angstroms in their short-strong or low-barrier forms, and these interactions occur between i and i+4 positions on alpha helices. Stabilization via these interactions explains the low density of ice. For 10 points, name these strong covalent interactions typically occurring between fluorine, nitrogen, or oxygen and the namesake element.	hydrogen bonds [or H-bonds]	Fluorine	False
93	This artist showed Alekto dragging Mars out of the Temple of Janus as he stomps on a book representing the arts in The Consequences of War, which is paired with The Allegory on the Blessings of Peace. He featured a fountain with water spouting out of the breasts of a statue of Diana on the right side of a painting that shows him dancing with Helene Fourment. He painted Saturn lifting Veritas up to heaven in The Triumph of Truth, which is the last work in a series including The Disembarkation at Marseilles and Louis XIII Comes of Age. This artist of The Garden of Love painted a cycle based on the life of Marie de Medici. For 10 points, name this Flemish painter of The Descent from the Cross known for his voluptuous nudes.	Peter Paul Rubens	Janus	False
94	At one point in this novel the protagonist refuses to pick up a dusty copy of the novel How Grete was Plagued by her Husband Hans. In another episode the main character opens a door to find Willem and Franz being beaten by The Whipper. The servant Leni takes a liking to this novel's protagonist, who fires the advocate Huld before buying three identical canvases from the painter Titorelli. In this novel's penultimate section, a priest recites a parable about a man who accepts a command not to travel through the door to the law; and this book begins with two men waking the protagonist to inform him he is under arrest. For 10 points, name this novel in which Joseph K is arrested for an unknown crime by Franz Kafka.	The Trial [or Der Prozess]	The_Trial	True
95	When TFEB translocates to the nucleus, it results in a corresponding increase in the number of these organelles. A glycosphingolipid in this organelle, iGb3, is necessary for the production of natural killer cells. P-type lectins direct enzymes that have been tagged with mannose-6-phosphate to this organelle. Christian Rene de Duve discovered this organelle after centrifuging liver cells and discovering an abnormally high amount of acid phosphatase. Malfunction of this organelle can lead to a buildup of gangliosides in Tay-Sachs disease. For 10 points, name these organelles that perform autophagy by digesting unneeded or excess cellular materials.	lysosomes	Lysosome	True
96	"This composer included the tenor saxophone in his sixth symphony whose final movement was inspired by the quote, ""We are such stuff / As dreams are made on"" from The Tempest. This composer borrowed a speech about the Crimean War pleading for peace in Dona nobis pacem, while the landscape of East Anglia inspired In the Fen Country. He used the poems ""Passage to India"" and ""On the Beach at Night Alone"" from Leaves of Grass in one symphony, while another piece was inspired by a George Meredith poem. This composer of The Lark Ascending adapted music for the film Scott of the Antarctic into his Sinfonia Antarctica. For 10 points, name this English composer of Fantasia on a Theme of Thomas Tallis."	Ralph Vaughan-Williams	Antarctica	False
97	"In one of this man's experiments, he had a group of people feed dialogue to a student interacting with another person, who did not realize he was talking to multiple personalities. That experiment coined the term ""cyranoid"". In another of his experiments, he had groups watch an episode of Medical Center with different endings to see if a more violent ending would cause violent behavior. He sent packages to people in Omaha, Nebraska, seeing if they could eventually pass the packages on to Boston. This ""small world"" experiment reportedly showed there were ""six degrees of separation"". His most famous experiment was conducted at Yale University and was inspired by the trial of Adolf Eichmann. For 10 points, name this psychologist who conducted an experiment in which ordinary people demonstrated their obedience to authority by administering seemingly painful electric shocks to victims."	Stanley Milgram	Milgram_experiment	False
98	"This poet wrote ""We can make our lives sublime, / And, departing, leave behind us / Footprints on the sands of time"". He wrote about seeing the ""face of one long dead"" in a poem about the death of his wife titled ""Cross of Snow"". The speaker asserts, ""Let us, then, be up and doing / With a heart for fate"" in a poem that begins ""Tell me not in mournful numbers, / Life is but an empty dream!"" This author of ""The Psalm of Life"" wrote a poem about a man who stands ""under a spreading chestnut tree"", while another poem concerns an Arcadian woman who loves Gabriel Lajeunesse and begins with the line ""This is the forest primeval"". For 10 points, name this poet who wrote Evangeline and ""Paul Revere's Ride""."	Henry Wadsworth Longfellow	Elegy_Written_in_a_Country_Churchyard	False
99	"This man wrote the words to a hymn beginning ""The Lord will come and not be slow"". In another sonnet, the nineteenth in a sequence, he wrote that ""God doth not need either man's work or his own gifts"".In one of his works, a wicked sorcerer betrays Lady Alice Egerton's trust, telling her that ""beauty is Nature's coin, must not be hoarded"". In another, this author describes a ""two-handed engine"" in a pastoral elegy on the death of Edward King. He wrote a closet drama about a pained Old Testament Nazarite, Samson Agonistes, which was set in publication against his New Testament epic poem. The author of both Comus and ""Lycidas"", this is, for 10 points, which author who also wrote about the Fall of Lucifer in Paradise Lost and Paradise Regained."	John Milton 	Elegy_Written_in_a_Country_Churchyard	False
100	"One student of this man explored the creative process in an essay entitled ""The Having of Wonderful Ideas. ""That student, Eleanor Duckworth, later wrote the introduction to one collection of his essays. Also the teacher of Barbara Inhelder, in his later work, this psychologist considered cognitive structures of development as a differentiation of biological regulations, which played a role in a later concept. This psychologist described a phenomenon in which children are unable to comprehend that something that they cannot see is no longer there, known as object permanence. A proponent of innate instinctual schemas, this psychologist later developed four developmental stages, the last of which is the formal operational one. For 10 points, name this French psychologist. "	Jean Piaget	Jean_Piaget	True
101	This artist depicted statues of Moses and the Sybil in his dark Pieta, which features a tablet under a stone lion's head that shows the artist and his son Orazio praying to be spared from a plague. He painted a knight leading a captured Moor and Turk to the Virgin Mary, who sits atop a stairway in the Pesaro Madonna. This artist showed a man wrapped in snakes inspired by The Laocoon in the procession of a god whose chariot is pulled by cheetahs in Bacchus and Ariadne. In another work a kneeling servant rummages through a chest in the background while the title figure holds roses in her right hand as she reclines nude. For 10 points, name this Venetian artist who painted Sacred and Profane Love and Venus of Urbino.	Titian [accept Tiziano Vecelli]	Venus_of_Urbino	False
102	"This composer wrote a work beginning with the double basses representing mist before the orchestra enters to play six different dances; that work was a tribute to a Johann Strauss waltz. He included sections titled ""Little Tom Thumb"" and ""Conversation of Beauty and the Beast"" in a work dedicated to the Godebski kids. This composer of La Valse and Mother Goose wrote a work ending with a chorus of bacchantes playing tambourines, who join together in the ""Danse Generale"". In addition to writing a ballet based on a Longus poem, he wrote a work dedicated to Ida Rubinstein that features an unchanging snare drum ostinato rhythm. For 10 points, name this Spanish composer who wrote Daphnis et Chloe and Bolero."	Joseph-Maurice Ravel	Bolero	False
103	"One of this man's novels sees the title character become a boxing coach for lower-class boys in the east end of London after leaving college. Later, he endures a frustrating psychoanalysis session with Dr. Barry after he falls in love with Clive Durham. Another work contains the epigraph ""only connect"", and ends with Leonard Bast's death at the hands of Charles Wilcox at the titular locale, after the lower-class Bast had befriended the Schlegel sisters. The author of the short story collection The Celestial Omnibus, another of his novels features a locale that echoes back ""boum"" no matter what's said. In that location, the Marabar Caves, Adela Quested accuses Dr. Aziz of trying to rape her. For 10 points name this man, the author of Maurice, Howard's End and A Passage to India."	Edward Morgan Forster 	E._M._Forster	False
104	"One poem by this author states that ""4 and 4 are 8"", but asks ""what would happen/If the last 4 were late?""; that poems is ""Problems"". This author of ""Justice"" also wrote that the title entity of another poem ""will not come/Today, this year/Nor ever/Through compromise and fear"" and that ""[f]reedom/is a strong seed/Planted/in a great need"". while another of his poems is ostensibly written as a response to instructions to ""[g]o home and write/A page tonight"". This author of ""Democracy"" and ""Theme for English B"" also asked, ""Does it dry up like a raisin in the sun?"" in a poem which wonders ""What happens to a dream deferred?"" For 10 points, name this Harlem Renaissance poet who wrote The Weary Blues."	Langston Hughes	Elegy_Written_in_a_Country_Churchyard	False
105	"This composer wrote a piano concerto whose final movement switches to 6/8 time before the trumpets introduce a theme based on the song, ""The Man Who Broke the Bank at Monte Carlo"". He featured a theme from Faure's abandoned Tantum Ergo motet in ""andante sostenuto"" movement of his Piano Concerto No. 2, while he included a tune he heard sung by a boatman on the Nile River in a sonata subtitled ""The Egyptian"". This composer wrote a piece opening with the harp playing D twelve times to convey it is midnight in which the xylophone represents the sound of bones. For 10 points, name this French composer of Danse Macabre who included movements titled ""Fossils"" and ""The Swan"" in Carnival of the Animals."	Camille Saint-Saens	Piano_concerto	False
106	"Proteins targeted for either this structure or the plasma membrane are tagged with the amino acid sequence Y-X-X-phi, where X is any residue and phi is any hydrophobic residue. One protein found here, GAAP, was found in 2009 to reduce the frequency of oscillations of cytosolic calcium concentrations. In plants, hemicelluloses and pectins are created here, and it is location of sphingomyelin synthesis from ceramide. Sulfotransferases sulfate glycosaminoglycans and proteglycans in this structure. Vesicles marked with the COPII (""cop-2"") protein transport molecules from endoplasmic reticulum to its cis face. This organelle is composed of flattened discs called cisternae. For 10 points, name this protein-modifying organelle named for an Italian biologist."	Golgi body [or Golgi apparatus; or Golgi complex]	Endoplasmic_reticulum	False
107	One modification of a reaction used to synthesize this functionality uses dimethyl 1-diazo-2-oxopropylphosphonate, also known as the Ohira-Bestmann reagent, and an aldehyde. The original reaction uses a ketone and is a low temperature, base-promoted homologation named for Seyferth and Gilbert. Two molecules containing this functionality can be coupled end-to-end in another reaction named for Eglinton. That reaction relies on the terminal variety of this functionality, which can be synthesized by reacting an aldehyde with triphenylphosphine and a geminal dihalide on an alkenyl carbon. Created by the Corey-Fuchs reaction, for 10 points, name this functional group containing two pi and one sigma bonds between carbon atoms.	alkynes	Aldehyde	False
108	"In one story by this author, two boys get a toy sail boat for their good grades, but drown in the light that escapes from broken lightbulbs. In another story the Pope comes to visit Nicanor while attending ""Big Mama's Funeral"". This author wrote about Meme, the mistress of a doctor who commits suicide, ushering Isabel and the Colonel to describe the title event in his story ""Leaf Storm"". The oldest woman leads a village of tiny people to bury Esteban in one of his stories, while in another Pelayo discovers a figure lying face down in the mud who the village thinks is an angel. For 10 points, name this author of ""A Very Old Man with Enormous Wings"" who wrote about the Buendia family in One Hundred Years of Solitude."	Gabriel García-Márquez	The_House_of_the_Spirits	False
109	"This man argues that residents of certain cities constituted no separate class in a book that discusses Wang Yangmin's treatment of Confucian li. In one essay, this sociologist analyzes the ""eternal past"" and legality of statutes to argue that the Christian notion of ""turning the other cheek"" does not suit politicians. This author described legal, traditional, and charismatic domination in The Three Types of Legitimate Rule. In addition to authoring Politics as a Vocation, this man described efficiency and control as factors by which people are put into an ""iron cage"". For 10 points, name this German sociologist who asserted that a certain denomination's hard work made them into wealthy businesspeople in The Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism."	Maximilian Carl Emil Weber	John_Cage	False
110	The gene dcp-1 is necessary for this process to occur in Drosophila, and it can be triggered by the release of endonuclease G from the mitochondria. This process can be inhibited by a family of proteins with multiple BIRs at the amino terminus, or by a pathway involving Pl-3 kinase and Akt kinase, which phosphorylates the protein Bad. This process can be induced by hypoxia or heat shock, unless it is suppressed by Bcl-2. This process results from a release of cytochrome c into the cytosol, which triggers a cascade of caspases. Eventually resulting in the fragmentation of the cell, for 10 points, identify this process of programmed cell death.	apoptosis	Apoptosis	True
111	Reacting these compounds with benzenesulfonyl chloride in an aqueous base can help distinguish between different varieties of them in a process known as the Hinsberg test. Primary ones can be formed in the presence of formic acid via the Leuckart reaction, and the related Eschweiler-Clarke procedure can methylate them. Reacting these compounds with hydrogen peroxide is the first step in converting them to alkenes via the Cope Elimination. They can be prepared by reacting an alkyl halide with potassium phthalimide in the Gabriel synthesis. For 10 points, identify this class of organic compounds containing a singly bonded nitrogen atom.	amines	Hydrogen_peroxide	False
112	"This author described a mountaintop landscape as ""The types and symbols of Eternity, / Of first, and last, and midst, and without end"", which occurs after the speaker crosses the Alps. In another poem, he wrote ""while the birds thus sing a joyous song"", ""to me alone there came a thought of grief:"" That poem ends by noting that ""the meanest flower that blows can give thoughts that do often lie too deep for tears"". In a better known poem addressed to his sister, this poet wrote that ""a motion and a spirit, that impels all thinking things, all objects of thought, and rolls through all things"" five years after his first visit to the titular location. For 10 points, identify this poet of The Prelude, ""Ode: Intimations of Immortality"", and ""Tintern Abbey"", a Romantic poet who collaborated with Samuel Taylor Coleridge on Lyrical Ballads."	William Wordsworth	Kubla_Khan	False
113	This president's nomination of John Parker to the Supreme Court was not approved after backlash from organized labor and the NAACP. Though the Clark Memorandum was written during his predecessor's administration, this man attempted to implement it by withdrawing troops from Nicaragua and Haiti. This man appointed George Wickersham to chair a commission that produced the report Lawlessness in Law Enforcement and found the Volstead Act to be unenforceable. Before becoming president, this man had served as head of the U.S. Food Administration and Secretary of Commerce. For 10 points, taking public blame for the Bonus Army fiasco and ineffectively dealing with the Great Depression probably cost what thirty-first President his 1932 re-election bid?	Herbert Clark Hoover	Bonus_Army	False
114	"In a chapter of this novel entitled ""The Hedgehog"", the main character confesses that although he does not know Parsifal very well, the episode of the three drops of blood in the snow always stuck with him. Another character in this novel dies from swallowing a pin to conceal his affiliation, and a major scene in this novel sees the main character place the title object in the hands of a baby Jesus. The early part of this novel tells of how Joseph Koljaiczek hid beneath the skirts of the main character's Kashubian grandmother, and later in this novel the main character joins a gange called the Dusters that conducts raids on S.S. offices. This novel's main character has a voice that can shatter glass and, either of his own will or because of an accident, stops growing at three. For 10 points, identify this novel about the possessor of the titular instrument, Oskar Matzerath, the middle part of Gunther Grass' Danzig Trilogy."	The Tin Drum [or Der Blechtrommel]	The_Tin_Drum	True
115	"This composer wrote a violin piece titled ""Music for the Chapel of the Pieta"". This composer included a piece called ""Suspicious"" in a set of works dedicated to Charles VI, entitled The Lyre. A ""spirituous non e presto"" movement ends his La Stravaganza, and his other concertos include pieces titled ""Proteus"" and ""Goldfinch"", as well as a set of twelve collected in L'estro Armonico. This composer featured themes representing ""drunkards that have fallen asleep"" and a ""barking dog"" in sonnets that were written to accompany his best-known work, which appeared in The Contest Between Harmony and Invention. For 10 points, name this Italian composer who included ""La Primavera"" and ""L'Autunno"" in his The Four Seasons."	Antonio Lucio Vivaldi	Four_Seasons	False
116	"In one work by this author, the speaker laments that ""passion sometimes would prevail/Nor could to-night's gay feast restrain/A sudden thought of one so pal"". This author of ""Abt Vogler"" wrote another poem in which the title character wishes to be like Agnolo or Leonardo and competes with The Cousin for the love of Lucrezia. In another poem, the title character ""talks to his own self, howe'er he please/touching that other, whom his dam called God""; that poem is based on a god worshiped by a certain character from The Tempest. Another poem by this author of ""Andrea del Sarto"" features an image of Neptune taming a seahorse; its narrator laments that the title character disregarded a centuries-old name, and that poem concerns a painting by Fra Pandolf. For 10 points, name this author of ""Caliban Upon Setebos"" and ""My Last Duchess""."	Robert Browning	My_Last_Duchess	False
117	One group in this phylum probably descended from heteractinids, which went extinct during the Paleozoic Era. This phylum's immune response includes the accumulation of grey cells. In organisms in this phylum, totipotent amoebocytes allow for reproduction and the distribution of nutrients digested by current-producing choanocytes. Those choanocytes, with epidermal pinocytes, bound a gelatinous matrix known as the mesohyl, which separates the two layers of organisms in this phylum. The asconoid and syconoid body forms also feature an osculum along with spicules produced by sclerocytes. For 10 points, name this invertebrate phylum of sessile, suspension-feeding animals commonly known as sponges.	Porifera [accept sponges before the end]	Sponge	True
118	One character in this novel buys a diamond before murdering a jeweler and being taken out of prison by Lord Wilmore. Another character in this work betrays Ali Pasha during the Greek revolution and sells his wife into slavery. At the end of this novel, the title character falls in love with the slave girl Haydee, and Luigi Vampa captures Danglars and imprisons him. In this novel, the Morcerf marries Mercedes and the protagonist finds the treasure described by Abbe Faria after breaking out of the Chateau d'If, where he was falsely imprisoned. For 10 points, name this revenge novel centering on Edmond Dantes, written by Alexandre Dumas.	The Count of Monte Cristo [accept Le Comte de Monte-Cristo]	The_Count_of_Monte_Cristo	True
119	In cricket, bowlers from this nation include Jacques Kallis and Hansie Cronje. At one World Cup, this nation's rugby team won against another including Jonah Lomu in the finals and was led by Francios Pienaar. One runner from this nation won the 800 meters at the 2009 World Championships, and was accused of being not entirely female. Siphiwe Tshabalala scored a goal for this nation against Mexico this year in a group which also included Uruguay and France. For 10 points, name this home of Caster Semenya and Ernie Els whose vuvuzelas buzzed throughout its hosting of the 2010 FIFA World Cup.	Republic of {South Africa} [or Republiek van {Suid}-{Afrika}]	Uruguay	False
120	The operator of this quantity is negative Planck's constant squared over two times the mass del squared. In the case of a stable gravitational system, its average value over time according to the virial theorem is equal to negative one half times another quantity. This quantity is represented by a capital T in the formula for the Hamiltonian.  The average value of this quantity per molecule in an ideal gas is three halves kt. It is not conserved in inelastic collisions due to heat dissipation. For 10 points, name this quantity, whose rotational form is given by one half times moment of inertia times angular velocity squared, often called energy of motion.	"kinetic energy [do not accept ""energy"" or ""potential energy""; accept energy of motion before mentioned; prompt on ""K""]"	Mass	False
121	A chryselephantine statue of this deity had her holding a pomegranate  and a scepter with a cuckoo on it and was found at Argos. Another temple to this Greek goddess lay in Paestum, Italy. This patron deity of Samos was often symbolized by the peacock and the cow. One of this goddess's daughters was replaced by Ganymede as cupbearer to the gods and was named Hebe. Hephaestus fell for a whole day after this figure threw him off Mount Olympus. She tried to get back at her husband through his illegitimate offspring like Apollo, Dionysus, and Hercules. For 10 points, name this Greek analogue of Juno, the wife of Zeus.	"Hera [accept Juno until ""Greek""]"	Hephaestus	False
122	"This thinker introduced his namesake triangles linking consumer spending and production time in his Prices and Production. He distinguished between thesis and nomos in the three-volume Law, Legislation, and Liberty. This organizer of the Mont Pelerin Society distinguished his outlook from the title one in ""Why I Am Not a Conservative."" One work by this author includes a chapter on ""The Socialist Roots of Naziism"" and warns against conditions leading to collectivization and the title oppression. For 10 points, name this Austrian economist who described the consequences of central planning in The Road to Serfdom."	Friedrich August von Hayek	On_Liberty	False
123	This type of organic molecule is oxidized in the Swern oxidation. They can also be oxidized by Pyridinium chlorochromate, which is abbreviated PCC. Tosyl chloride converts these into tosylates, and thionyl chloride reacts with them to form alkyl chlorides. They react with carboxylic acids in the Fischer esterification. Reacting aldehydes with an organomagnesium halide reagent creates these. Sulfuric acid can be used to dehydrate these in elimination reactions governed by Zaitsev's rule. Tertiary ones are reactive with hydrogen halides in the SN1 reaction. For 10 points, name these organic compounds that have a hydroxyl group, an example of which is ethanol.	alcohols	Carboxylic_acid	False
124	In one work, this author urged psychologists to stop using mentalistic constructs like defense mechanisms, homunculi, and the two title concepts. In another work, he distinguished internal speech, or autoclitics, from the four types of regular speech: echoic behavior, mands, tacts, and interverbals. He wrote a novel demonstrating a community founded by T. E. Frazier according to this man's theory. This psychologist delivered reinforcing stimuli to creatures in his namesake box during operant conditioning. For 10 points, name this behaviorist who wrote Verbal Behavior, Beyond Freedom and Dignity, and Walden Two.	Burrhus Frederic Skinner	B._F._Skinner	False
125	This nation's southernmost city is the port of Leticia, and its city of Buenaventura is often called the world's wettest city. This country occupies the northern portion of the Guajira Peninsula. The Cauca department is home to its third-largest city Cali. This nation's Magdalena River empties into the ocean at the city of Barranquilla, and this nation is known for its emerald production. Its border with a northern neighbor is formed by the Darien Gap, and this country is home to the cities of Medellin and Cartagena. For 10 points, name this South American nation troubled by a guerilla group called FARC, which has its capital at Bogota.	Colombia	New_York_City	False
126	In one novel by this author, Charlotte loves the Captain but is married to Edward, who loves Ottilie. In another of this author's plays, Klarchen kills herself after the title character is put to death by the Duke of Alba. This author of Elective Affinities and Egmont wrote a play in which Helen has a son named Euphorion with the title character and in which Wagner creates a homunculus. Another character created by this author kills himself after he is spurned by Lotte, and a play by this author sees Gretchen drown her child after the title character makes a deal with Mephistopheles. For 10 points, name this author of The Sorrows of Young Werther and Faust.	Johann Wolfgang von Goethe	The_Sorrows_of_Young_Werther	False
127	This artist painted a woman with a sword in a burning landscape where a dark river flows into a giant mouth.  In another work by him, skeletons with trumpets and spears kill people in a desolate landscape alongside a cart full of skulls. In addition to Dulle Griet and The Triumph of Death, he painted a man holding a kabob and riding a barrel while being pushed towards a sickly man with an oar in The Fight Between Carnival and Lent. This man also painted a work in which a man and his donkey plow a field on a hill while a ship sails away from a small splash in the background.  For 10 points, name this artist of The Peasant Wedding and Landscape with the Fall of Icarus.	Pieter Brueghel the Elder	Caspar_David_Friedrich	False
128	This protein's namesake prosthetic group is synthesized in a pathway that includes 5-aminolevulinic acid as an intermediate.  2,3-Bisphosphoglycerate alters its binding ability, but has less interaction with a version of this protein using zeta and epsilon chains. That form is found in the embryo, and separate versions of this protein are expressed in the fetus and in adults. When the glutamic acid at position six of this protein is changed to a valine, a disorder that results in increased malarial resistance occurs. This protein is a tetramer, and defects in this protein yield thalassemia and sickle cell anemia.  For 10 points, name this protein in red blood cells that transports oxygen.	hemoglobin	Protein_folding	False
129	"This composer set lyrics by David Byrne in his collection, Songs from Liquid Days. He set the titular Allen Ginsberg poem in his sixth symphony, ""Plutonian Ode,"" and he used tunes from David Bowie and Brian Eno's albums in his second and third symphonies, subtitled ""Low"" and ""Heroes"" respectively. He is better known for an opera which involves Tolstoy, Tagore, and Martin Luther King; and one whose sections ""Prematurely Air-Conditioned Supermarket"" and ""I Feel the Earth Move"" follow the third ""Knee Play."" For 10 points, name this American minimalist composer whose ""portrait trilogy"" includes Satyagraha and Einstein on the Beach."	Philip Glass	Allen_Ginsberg	False
130	This god put Delphinus in the stars after the latter helped him court his wife. He and Apollo were forced to build the walls of Troy for King Laodemon after attempting to overthrow Zeus. In another story, this god fathered Despoena and Arion when he seduced Demeter in the form of a stallion, and his wife transformed Scylla into a barking monster after Scylla had an affair with this figure. He lost a contest to Athena when she gave Cecrops an olive branch, thus giving her patronage of Athens. Out of wedlock, he was the father of the Cyclops Polyphemus, and with his wife Amphitrite, he fathered Triton. For 10 points, name this trident-wielding Greek god of the sea.	Poseidon	Athena	False
131	The Sommerfeld number is important in the study of decreasing this phenomenon, and the Frenkel-Kontorova-Tomlinson model describes it.  Its coefficient is related to the Stribeck number by the Stribeck curve.  It causes the formation of tribofilms.  It is described by a pair of laws named for Amonton, and the point where one form of it is overcome is the angle of repose. This force is independent of sliding velocity and proportional to the normal force.  When its strength alternates with motion, the stick-slip phenomenon occurs.  For 10 points, name this phenomenon, which represents the force resisting any sliding motion, and which comes in static and kinetic varieties.	friction	Friction	True
132	"In one work, this thinker identified three classes of options in deciding which of two hypotheses to follow: living, forced, and momentous. That work argues against W. K. Clifford's evidentialism in defending religious practices. One of his works discusses the methods of analysis, introspection, experiment, and comparison in the title discipline. This author of The Principles of Psychology and The Varieties of Religious Experience used the example of a man chasing a squirrel around a tree to illustrate his theory of meaning in a work subtitled ""A New Name for Some Old Ways of Thinking"". For 10 points, name this American philosopher and author of Pragmatism."	William James	William_James	True
133	The change in this quantity for mixing is equal to the sum of the products of the component's mole fraction and the natural log of the mole fraction times RT.  When temperature is constant, the partial derivative of this quantity with respect to pressure is volume. The chemical potential is equal to the partial derivative of this quantity with respect to the number of particles. The equilibrium constant is equal to the exponential of negative RT dividing the change in this quantity. It is equal to enthalpy minus the product of temperature and entropy.  For 10 points, name this quantity that when the change in it is negative indicates a reaction is spontaneous, and which is symbolized G.	Gibbs Free Energy	Enthalpy	False
134	In one novel by this author, the professor Eugene Debs Hartke becomes the warden of a prison. This author created an American spy in WWII who becomes a Nazi propagandist. Another work of this author is set in a completely automated world and centers on Anita and Paul Proteus. In addition to writing Hocus Pocus, Mother Night and Player Piano, this author wrote a work that ends when the body of the president of San Lorenzo is thrown into the ocean after the world is consumed by ice-nine. For 10 points, name this novelist who created the religion Bokononism in Cat's Cradle and wrote about Billy Pilgrim and the firebombing of Dresden in Slaughterhouse-Five.	Kurt Vonnegut	Slaughterhouse-Five	False
135	"Only the first movement survives of this composer's 1876 Piano Quartet in A minor, written in his student days at the Vienna Conservatory. Cowbells are employed in the first ""Nachtmusik"" movement of his seventh symphony. The finale of his fourth symphony and his Lieder eines fahrenden Gesellen both set texts from the German folk poem collection, Das Knaben Wunderhorn. His fifth symphony opens with a funeral march in C-sharp minor and contains an Adagietto in F major, while his sixth symphony contains a melody named for his wife, Alma. For 10 points, name this Austrian composer of symphonies nicknamed ""Titan,"" ""Tragic,"" and ""Resurrection."""	Gustav Mahler	Symphony_No._9_(Beethoven)	False
136	This man's wife circumcised his first son during a stay at an inn; that son was Gershom. This man had a speech impediment from a time he put a hot coal to his mouth instead of a piece of gold. He was punished with premature death after striking a rock for water. This figure's wife was one of seven sisters who met him at a well in Midian; that wife was Zipporah, the son of Jethro. His sister was Miriam, and his brother, the high priest Aaron, led this man's people in making a golden calf while he was away. For 10 points, name this Biblical figure who received the Ten Commandments on Mt. Sinai and parted the Red Sea as leader of the Jews during the Exodus.	Moses [or Moshe]	Coal	False
137	"An early kingdom in this modern nation was divided into ""Water"" and ""Land"" portions and was called Chenla. A ruler of another kingdom in this country built the mostly stone temple Bakong and was named Indravarman I; that kingdom was started by Jayavarman II. This nation was more recently ruled by a man who had been part of the Cercle Marxiste and established a ""year zero"" policy. That man ruled as part of the Angkor and took the name Brother Number One. For 10 points, name this country in Southeast Asia once ruled as a communist nation by Pol Pot under the Khmer Rouge that has the temple Angkor Wat and a capital city of Phnom Penh."	Kingdom of Cambodia [or Preahreacheanachakr Kampuchea]	Khmer_Empire	False
138	This thinker objected to Descartes's ideas about the transcendence of God and the existence of human free will in his explanation of Principles of Philosophy. One of his works begins with definitions, axioms, and fifteen propositions about the nature of God, the only substance in the universe. In another, he denies that Moses wrote the entire Torah, and insists on a close, critical reading of Scripture in distinguishing between Jewish divine and ceremonial law. For 10 points, name this author of the Tractatus Theologico-Politicus who was excommunicated from the Jewish community of Amsterdam before writing Ethics.	Baruch Spinoza [or Benedictus Spinoza]	Tractatus_Logico-Philosophicus	False
139	One collection written by these people that contains a number of astrological calculations is named the Dresden Codex. The culture and language of this civilization was studied by the bishop Diego de Landa, who was also responsible for burning most of this civilization's idols and books. One site built by these people contains a pyramid devoted to Kukulcan and a court for playing pok-ta-pok, a ritual ball game. This civilization had over 800 characters in their hieroglyphic language. For 10 points, name this Mesoamerican civilization that was on a decline before the arrival of the Spanish, and which built Chich? Itz?and used an advanced kind of calendar.	Mayan Civilization	Elizabeth_Bishop	False
140	"A hymn to this figure, ""Ut queant laxis,"" gave rise to the solf?e syllables. According to Luke, this figure's mother was ""of the daughters of Aaron"" and either cousin or aunt to Mary. That woman, Elizabeth, was the wife of this figure's father, the priest Zechariah. This figure called himself ""the voice of one crying out in the wilderness"", and said of Jesus, ""I knew him not"", and he also called Jesus the lamb of God. At the bidding of her mother Herodias, Salome asked for this figure's head on a dish, and Herod Antipas obliged. Sometimes called ""the Precursor"", for 10 points, name this man who got his epithet from ritually bathing people in the Jordan River, including Jesus Christ."	{John the Baptist} [or {Yo}-{khanan} ha-matbil]	John_the_Baptist	True
141	Zuckerkandl's tubercle is a pyramidal extension of this body component. Another key feature of this structure is Berry's ligament. Hurthle cells are associated with Hashimoto's disease, an autoimmune disorder affecting this structure.  Its parafollicular cells produce calcitonin, and when it is overactive in producing a similarly named hormone, weight loss and rapid heartbeat can result. A more well-known disease associated with it is Graves' disease, and a lack of iodine can cause the enlargement of it. For 10 points, name this endocrine gland in the neck that is afflicted by goiters.	thyroid gland	Thyroid	True
142	"An Andante con moto siciliana in 6/8 is the second movement of one of these works, composed in four days for Count Thun. The Presto finale of one of these works in D major is reportedly to be played ""as fast as possible"" and shares a dedicatee with an earlier serenade by the composer. The penultimate of these was scored to be played with or without clarinets, and is one of only two in a minor key. The finale of the last of these uses a theme previously used in Michael Haydn's Symphony No. 33 and ends with a five-voice fugato. For 10 points, ""Linz"", ""Haffner"", ""Great G minor"", and ""Jupiter"" are some of what orchestral works by the composer of The Marriage of Figaro?"	Symphonies of Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart	Joseph_Haydn	False
143	"In one work, this thinker linked material things to cause-and-effect reasoning and motivating forces with moral reasoning as two of the four distinct types of objects and reasoning. This author of ""On the Basis of Morality"" built on Kant's view to say that humans create the violent state of nature in one work. That work also states that the human body is the only object with both of the title entities, which represent the objective and subjective self. Besides ""The Fourfold Root of the Principle of Sufficient Reason"", he wrote a work which criticizes Kant's view of the thing-in-itself. For 10 points, name this pessimistic German author of The World as Will and Representation."	Arthur Schopenhauer	Immanuel_Kant	False
144	This author wrote about two inmates who rehearse for a performance of Sophocles' Antigone every night, and another of this author's works features the attempts of Elsa and Pastor Byleveld to help Miss Helen. This author of The Island and The Road to Mecca wrote a work in which Styles photographs a man pretending to be the dead Robert Zwelinzima. He wrote about the bond between the brothers Zachariah and Morris. Another work by this author sees the servants Sam and Willie practice ballroom dancing. For 10 points, name this author of Sizwe Banzi is Dead and Blood Knot, an playwright from South Africa who wrote about Hally in Master Harold... and the Boys.	Athol Fugard	Antigone	False
145	"In one opera by this composer, the title character recalls her love for the man who abandoned her in ""Ein Sch?nes War"" and awaits to be carried off by Hermes in ""Es Gibt ein Reich"".  The ""Italian Singer"" sings ""Di rigori armato il seno"" in another opera in which the duet ""Mir ist die Ehre widerfahren"" is sung by Sophie and the title character, Octavian. The title character of another of his operas performs the seductive ""Dance of the Seven Veils"" before being executed for kissing the decapitated head of John the Baptist. For 10 points, Hugo von Hofmannsthal was the librettist for many of the operas of what composer of Ariadne Auf Naxos, Salome, and Der Rosenkavalier?"	"Richard Strauss [prompt on just ""Strauss""]"	Salome	False
146	El Bag?Nature Park is a part of this nation's Jardines del Rey, which is an archipelago that is part of the Sabana-Camageuy. The Marea del Portillo is part of this country's Turquino National Park, which contains Pica Turquino, this nation's highest point. The Canarreos Archipelago contains the Isla de la Juventud, which is the second largest island in this nation and which is located south of its capital city. Its longest river, the Cuato, flows through the province of Santiago before emptying into the Caribbean. It is located approximately 90 miles south of Florida. For 10 points, name this largest Caribbean island nation home to Guantanamo Bay with capital at Havana.	Republic of Cuba	Florida	False
147	One novel by this author follows a cult led by Galileo Gall and Antonio Conselheiro that believes the world will end at Ganudos Ranch. He wrote of Lituma losing a game of Russian Roulette in Don Anselmo's title whorehouse in another novel. This author of The War of the End of the World and The Green House wrote of Cava, who steals an exam for the Jaguar while a cadet at the Leoncio Prado military academy. In another of his novels, Uncle Lucho's divorced sister-in-law hires Pedro Comacho to write various novellas for broadcast on Radio Panamerica. For 10 points, name this Peruvian author of The Time of the Hero and Aunt Julia and the Scriptwriter.	Mario Vargas Llosa	Aunt_Julia_and_the_Scriptwriter	False
148	One character in this novel is killed while trying to make love to the figurehead of a wooden ship. Another character in this work dies after seeing eels being pulled from a dead horse. In addition to Herbert Truczinski, another character in this novel becomes a lover of Roswitha Raguna after joining Bebra's group of performers. Jan Bronski steals a necklace for Agnes in this novel. Its protagonist can shatter glass with his voice and refuses to grow any more at the age of three. It is followed by Cat and Mouse and Dog Years in its author's Danzig Trilogy. For 10 points, name this novel about Oskar Matzerath, who cherishes the title instrument, written by Gunter Grass.	The Tin Drum	The_Tin_Drum	True
149	"This artist's final exhibition included a depiction of a naked woman holding a lantern and lying among twigs, which had to be viewed through a keyhole. One title figure of another work is connected to a cloud with three white squares, while the other title figures are nine ""malic molds."" Besides ?ant Donn? and The Bride Stripped Bare by Her Bachelors, Even, his other works include a snow shovel, an object that has been signed ""R. Mutt"" and an inverted bicycle wheel sitting on a stool. Prelude to a Broken Arm and Fountain are among his ""readymades."" For 10 points, name this French Dada of L.H.O.O.Q and Nude Descending a Staircase."	Marcel Duchamp	Snow	False
150	For orthotropic materials, a 36 member compliance matrix can be used to generalize this law. For an isotropic solid this law can be expressed in terms of the two Lam?parameters. The anisotropic form of this law was expanded to describe three dimensional objects by Cauchy. The negative sign in this law describes the tendency to return to equilibrium position, and this law does not apply beyond the elastic range. It states that stress is directly proportional to strain. For 10 points, identify this law, more commonly stated as f equals negative k x, which can be used to calculate the restoring force on a spring.	Hooke's Law	Crime	False
151	This ruler sent an army to support a deposed leader of the Vandals named Hilderic against the usurper Gelimer. A treaty signed by this leader was broken eight years later by Khosrow I despite that treaty being named the Eternal Peace. This ruler briefly dismissed his advisors John of Cappadocia and Tribonian in the face of a revolt that attempted to name Hypatius emperor. That uprising against this man led by members of the Green and Blue factions was the Nika revolt. Procopius wrote a Secret History of this man's rule. For 10 points, name this husband of Theodora served by the general Belisarius, who updated the laws of the Byzantine Empire in his namesake code.	Justinian I [or Flavius Justinianus; or Petrus Sabbatius; prompt on Justinian]	Vandals	False
152	This painter's landscapes include two of Antwerp that feature the Steen Castle. Modern knowledge of the composition of Da Vinci's lost The Battle of Anghiari comes from a drawing by him. The title figure is seen being crowned in Saint-Denis and disembarking at Marseilles in his Marie de Medici cycle. His second wife, H??e Fourment, was thought to have posed for works such as The Three Graces and one in which the title figure scratches his chin while deciding between Hera, Athena, and Aphrodite, The Judgment of Paris. For 10 points, name this Flemish artist of a famous Descent from the Cross triptych, known for his full-bodied female nudes.	Peter Paul Rubens	Athena	False
153	"In one of this thinker's experiments, his graduate students found it difficult to ask fellow subway riders for their seats, even though most obliged. In another, he found that people were less willing to mail lost letters if they were addressed to odious organizations. Mr. Jacobs was a prolific friend of a stockbroker in Sharon, Massachusetts, who passed letters on to him from Omaha in this man's Small World experiment, which gave rise to the idea of ""six degrees of separation"". For 10 points, name this psychologist who showed that subjects were willing to give electrical shocks up to 450 volts to actors who got questions wrong in his namesake experiment on obedience."	Stanley Milgram	Milgram_experiment	False
154	"Paintings inspired by this work include Roger Brown's Puerto Rican Wedding. At the right of this painting, a narrow yellow door stands shut. A white-clad figure in this painting is bending down as he looks at a woman in a red dress. A sign running along the top of this painting advertises cigars selling for ""only 5 cents."" In addition to the aforementioned woman, other people in this painting include two dark-suited men in fedoras, each of whom leans on the counter next to cups of coffee. For 10 points, name this painting that depicts a diner in the hours of darkness and was painted by Edward Hopper."	Nighthawks	Edward_Hopper	False
155	This ruler placed Pyotr Shuvalov in charge of the Third Department, which operated as a secret police force. This ruler's country's first use of conscription came from the military reforms of Dmitry Milyutin. Mikhail Loris-Melikov served as Minister of the Interior to this ruler and wrote up a reforming constitution that this leader signed. This man also set up a system of local assemblies called zemstvos and issued a ukase in 1861 that emancipated all the serfs in his country. For 10 points, name this tsar who came to power during the Crimean War after the death of Nicholas I, and whose assassination by the People's Will in 1881 led to his succession by Alexander III.	Alexander II of Russia [or Aleksander Nikolayevich; prompt on Alexander]	Alexander_II_of_Russia	True
156	"One ballet by this composer makes use of the Renaissance French dance, bransle, for its serialist second Pas de Trois. Another of his ballets was adapted from music the composer thought to be by Pergolesi and had sets designed by Picasso. Besides Agon and Pulcinella, his other ballets include one written for Sergei Diaghilev in which the Moor slays the title puppet. He wrote a ballet whose first part, ""The Adoration of the Earth,"" opens with a high bassoon solo, and caused a riot at its 1913 Paris premiere. For 10 points, name this Russian composer of Petrouchka and The Rite of Spring."	Igor Stravinsky	The_Rite_of_Spring	False
157	The masses of these objects are related to velocity dispersion in the M-sigma relation, and their abrupt spin flip may be a result of galaxy mergers. They can be described by a metric named for Kerr when they possess angular momentum, and that metric allows angular momentum to be extracted in a process named for Penrose. The simplest metric describing these objects gives a namesake radius equal to two G M over c squared or two thirds of the radius of the photon sphere; that radius is named for Schwarzschild. They have an event horizon. For 10 points, name these objects with a singularity in the center from which not even light can escape.	black holes	Angular_momentum	False
158	"Characters created by this author include the crippled cooper Yvars. In one of his stories the engineer d'Arrast helps move the title object. This author of ""The Silent Men"" and ""The Growing Stone"" also wrote an unfinished novel about Jacques Cormery titled The First Man. In one novel, he wrote of Raymond Rambert's attempt to escape the city of Oran with Tarrou and Dr. Rieux. This author created a character who smokes a cigarette before the body of his dead mother, and who vacations with his friend Raymond and shoots an Arab on the beach. For 10 points, name this French existentialist author of The Plague and The Stranger."	Albert Camus	The_stranger	False
159	"The sniper Timothy Murphy shot down Frances Clarke and another officer during this battle as a part of Daniel Morgan's riflemen. One part of this battle saw an attack fail to take Freeman's Farm. The decisive phase of this battle was an attack on Bemis Heights that resulted in the death of Simon Fraser. Horatio Gates was disobeyed during that phase by Benedict Arnold, who received a leg wound during this battle. Following the British capture of Fort Ticonderoga, this battle ended ""Gentleman Johnnie"" Burgoyne's campaign down the Hudson River. For 10 points, name this 1777 American victory in the Revolutionary War that led to an American alliance with the French."	Battle of Saratoga [or Battle of Bemis Heights before mentioned; or Battle of Freeman's Farm before mentioned]	Battles_of_Saratoga	False
160	"To one side in this war, Emily Hobhouse became known as the ""Angel of Love"" for her work trying to improve conditions for that side's women and children. A series of three losses for the other side in this war became known as the Black Week. One siege in this war lasted 217 days before Robert Baden-Powell's troops were relieved in Mafeking. Concentration camps and a scorched earth policy were used by Lord Kitchener in this war, which was fought against people led by Louis Botha and Paul Kruger. This war was ended by the Treaty of Vereeniging. For 10 points, name this second conflict between the British and the namesake inhabitants of two South African republics."	Second Anglo-Boer War [or Second War of Independence; or South African War before mentioned]	Second_Boer_War	False
161	"Normal mode expansion is used to decompose coupled versions of these systems. The quantum version of one of them has a minimum energy level of h bar omega over two. An electrical example of these systems is a series RLC circuit. This system becomes more complex if the right-hand side is changed from 0 to a force term, or if a first derivative term is added to the left side. Those phenomena in this system are called ""driving"" and ""damping"" respectively, and the basic version of this system is developed by equating Newton's second law with Hooke's law. For 10 points, name this type of physical system that is exemplified by a mass on a spring."	simple harmonic oscillator	Resonance	False
162	"One version of this religion imagined the Plain of High Heaven where deities lived, while another included the ""Perpetual Country"" beyond the seas. Inner sanctuaries in this religion often feature carefully wrapped mirrors representing deities. In this religion's creation story, a husband and wife created land from drops off a jewel-encrusted spear used to stir brine. Coming in Folk, Sect, and Shrine varieties, this religion's shrines have gateways called torii. Believers worship over 800 natural spirits called kami. The Grass-Cutting Sword and the goddess Amaterasu come from, for 10 points, the myth of what indigenous religion of Japan?"	Shintoism [or kami-no-michi]	Amaterasu	False
163	"This author wrote a work in which Father Chantavoine's bells are rung by the prostitute Rachel to celebrate her stabbing of the title effeminate captain. In another of his works, Count Br?ille and Cornudet share a coach ride from Rouen to La Havre and encourage the prostitute Elisabeth Rousset to sleep with a Prussian officer. This author of ""Mademoiselle Fifi"" wrote a story in which Ramponneau invites the central characters to the Ministry of Education ball, where Mathilde loses Madame Forestier's title piece of jewelry, which turns out to be fake. For 10 points, name this French author of the ironic short stories ""Ball of Fat,"" and ""The Necklace."""	Henri Ren?Albert Guy de Maupassant	The_Necklace	False
164	"One character in this opera sings of conquering lands for his beloved in an aria that begins with the line ""Se quell guerrier io fossi.""  In its final act, the two protagonists sing the duet ""O terra addio"" as they are sealed in a tomb. The title character of this opera puzzles out her allegiances after mocking her rival's cry of ""Ritorna vincitor."" That rival begs the priests for mercy as Ramfis condemns a character that revealed the location of the army to Amonasro and is the king's daughter, Amneris. For 10 points, name this Giuseppe Verdi opera in which the Egyptian captain Radames falls in love with the title Ethiopian princess."	Aida	Aida	True
165	"One play by this author features characters named Lady Loadstone and Sir Diaphanous Silkworm, and this author wrote a poem beginning ""Drink to me, only with thine eyes and I will pledge with mine."" In addition to The Magnetic Lady and ""To Celia,"" this author wrote a play about Knowell and his servant Brainworm. Another play by this author is set in Venice and features Corvino, Corbaccio, and Voltore vie to be the heir of the title character served by Mosca. Another play by this author sees Master Lovewit marry Dame Pliant and confront Face. For 10 points, name this British dramatist who authored Every Man in His Humour, Volpone, and The Alchemist."	Ben Jonson	Volpone	False
166	This author wrote a novel in which Ganesh Ramsumair cures illnesses with his back rubs. In another of this author's works, a child observes a carpenter named Mr. Popo who never finishes his projects and a poet named B. Wordsworth who never finishes his poetry. In addition to writing The Mystic Masseur and Miguel Street, this author wrote a novel in which Big Man rules an unnamed African country inhabited by a shop owner named Salim. He wrote about Shama marrying a journalist named Mohun, who has six fingers and grows up with the Tulsis. For 10 points, name this Trinidadian author of A Bend in the River and A House for Mr. Biswas.	V. S. Naipaul [accept SirVidiadhar Surajpraad Naipaul]	A_House_for_Mr_Biswas	False
167	This god fathered Magni by the giantess Jarnsaxa. This god threatened to kill Loki after he had cut off the hair of this god's wife. His chariot is pulled by Tanngnjost and Tanngrisni, two goats, and he lives in Bilskirnir. In Jotunheim, this man was challenged, and failed, to lift the cat of the king of the Frost Giants, Utgard-Loki. He reduced the giant Hrungnir to rubble. At Ragnarok, this figure and Jormungandr, the Midgard Serpent, will kill each other. On one occasion, this god dressed up as Freya and killed Thrym, who had stolen his prized possession. The husband of Sif, for 10 points, name this owner of the hammer Mjollnir, the Norse god of thunder.	Thor	Loki	False
168	"This poet asked ""would you learn the spells that drowse my soul"" in a poem about an concept that ""draws nectar in a sieve."" He talks of a ""secret ministry"" and icicles ""Quietly shining to the quiet Moon"" in another work. In addition to writing ""Work Without Hope,"" and ""Frost at Midnight,"" this poet wrote about ""viper thoughts"" and ""grief without a pang"" in a poem about a glum emotion. He described a location by the sacred river Alph. For 10 points, identify this poet of ""Dejection: An Ode"" who wrote of a ""stately pleasure-dome"" in Xanadu in ""Kublai Khan"" and depicted the shooting of an albatross in his long poem The Rime of the Ancient Mariner."	Samuel Taylor Coleridge	The_Rime_of_the_Ancient_Mariner	False
169	This author wrote about a woman's relationship with her father in law and the gardener Saburo in Thirst for Love. One work by this author features a romance between Noguchi and the restaurant owner Kazu, and in another of his novels Ryuji is killed by Noboru, the son of his lover Fusako. One series of works by this author of After the Banquet features the character Isao Iinuma and describes the life of Shigekuni Honda. In another work by this author, the stuttering Mizoguchi burns down the title structure. For 10 points, name this Japanese author who wrote The Sailor who Fell from Grace with the Sea, The Temple of the Golden Pavilion, and the Sea of Fertility tetralogy.	Yukio Mishima	The_Temple_of_the_Golden_Pavilion	False
170	As a mature composer, he orchestrated tunes he wrote as a child into his Nursery Suite and two The Wand of Youth suites. In 1932, he conducted a recording of his Violin Concerto in B minor, with Yehudi Menuhin as the soloist. His overtures include ones titled Froissart and In the South. He set a poem by Cardinal Newman for his oratorio, The Dream of Gerontius. An orchestral work by him contains portraits of his friends, including Augustus Jaeger, who is depicted in an Adagio called Nimrod, and is based on a mysterious, never-played theme. For 10 points, name this British composer of the Enigma Variations and the Pomp and Circumstance Marches.	Edward Elgar	Violin_concerto	False
171	"In this author's first play, a wounded insect falls into a group of cockroaches and falls in love with. Another work by this author is described as a ""tragic poem"" and sees the title character strangle her impotent husband. This author wrote the poem ""Lament for the Death of a Bullfighter."" In addition to Yerma, this member of the Generation of '27 wrote about Leonardo Felix, who attends the title event and shoots the groom. He wrote a drama about the title widow and her five daughters featuring the character Pepe El Romano. For 10 points, name this Spanish author whose ""Rural Trilogy"" includes the plays Blood Wedding and The House of Bernarda Alba."	Federico Garcia Lorca	Leonardo_da_Vinci	False
172	One of this man's paintings depicts silhouettes created by rows of Venus de Milos which form the image of a man wearing a green tie, amidst a bullfighting scene. In another of his paintings, a kneeling figure from Greek myth is morphed into a hand holding an egg from which a flower protrudes. In another work by this creator of The Hallucinogenic Toreador and The Metamorphosis of Narcissus, the image in the water of some title creatures' necks appears to be the other title creatures' trunks. One of his paintings features ants crawling on melting watches. For 10 points, name this Surrealist Spanish artist of Swans Reflecting Elephants and The Persistence of Memory.	Salvador Dali	The_Persistence_of_Memory	False
173	"This thinker's early work rejected traditional epistemology for his ""theory of inquiry"", which appeared in works like ""Is Logic a Dualistic Science?"". He argued that humans interact with the world through self-guided activity in ""The Reflex Arc Concept in Psychology."" This man termed a bias for the stabler aspects of existence the ""philosophic fallacy"" in his Experience and Nature. His experiences with a laboratory school he opened in Chicago informed his view that school should be an extension of society with self-directed students acting as a community. For 10 points, name this pragmatist philosopher who wrote The School and Society and Democracy and Education."	John Dewey	Chicago	False
174	A few years into this war, the Twelve Years' Truce ended, allowing two nations to enter, while another nation joined after signing the Truce of Altmark with Poland. That nation's leader in this war was advised by Axel Oxenstierna and died at the Battle of L?tzen. Another side in this war attempted to undo the secularization of church lands by issuing the Edict of Restitution. Commanders for one side in this war were Tilly and Wallenstein, who both fought against Gustavus Adolphus. For 10 points, name this war fought between Protestants and Catholics that resulted in the confirmation of the Peace of Augsburg through its Peace of Westphalia.	Thirty Years' War	Gustavus_Adolphus	False
175	One king of this polity was captured in the Battle of Neville's Cross and detained until his ransom eleven years later by the Treaty of Berwick. Between 900 and 1286, this country was ruled by the Kingdom of Alba, which began with the reign of Donald II. Andrew Moray was one of the leaders of a force that briefly preserved this country's independence at the Battle of Stirling Bridge. A few decades later, this kingdom's independence was regained after a victory at the Battle of Bannockburn over the forces of Edward II by Robert the Bruce. For 10 points, identify this kingdom that was defended by William Wallace against its southern neighbor, England.	Scotland	David_Foster_Wallace	False
176	"One dictator in this country was forced to flee to England after he lost the Battle of Caseros. Under that dictator, this country saw the use of a secret police force called the Mazorcas. Bernardino Rivadavia and Bartolom?Mitre were presidents of this country that was also ruled by Juan Manuel de Rosas. One president of this country supported a coup as part of the United Officers Group and came to power with the support of los descamisados, or ""the shirtless ones."" That president was married to the actress known as Evita. For 10 points, name this South American country that was ruled in the twentieth century by Juan Per? from Buenos Aires."	Argentina [or Argentine Republic; or Republica Argentina]	Buenos_Aires	False
177	According to the Tummal Inscription, this man and his son restored the temple district of Nippur. He defeated a siege launched by Agga of Kish. Eventually, he managed to go past Mount Mashu to a garden full of jewels and eventually sought the advice of the alewife Siduri. This man was the father of Urlugal and the son of Ninsun and Lugulbanda. He gained his best friend after that friend had a week's worth of sex with Shamhat. He sought immortality from Utnapishtim after he and the aforementioned friend defeated Humbaba. With that friend, Enkidu, he killed the Bull of Heaven sent by Ishtar. For 10 points, identify this hero-king of Uruk in a Sumerian epic.	Gilgamesh	Epic_of_Gilgamesh	True
178	"A murder attempt by one character in this work is forgiven in the aria ""In diesen heil'gen Hallen."" Earlier another character sings a love song to a picture of a woman presented to him by the Three Ladies in ""Dies Bildnis Ist Bezaubernd Schon."" One character in this opera is ordered to commit murder by her mother, who sings of how ""Hell's vengeance boils in her heart"" in her most famous aria. In this opera, a prayer to Isis and Osiris is sung by the priest, Sarastro, and an aria about birdcatching is sung by Papageno, who helps save the Queen of the Night's daughter, Pamina. For 10 points, name this Mozart singspeil about Tamino's title instrument."	The Magic Flute or Die Zauberfl?te	The_Magic_Flute	True
179	The city of Zahedan in this country is a common destination for refugees, making it one of the fastest growing cities in the world. The imprisonment for religious reasons of two women in this country's second most populous city, Mashhad, sparked international outrage in October 2010. Its city of Qom is particularly known for its conservatism. A recent electoral controversy centered on this country's city of Tabriz, where the incumbent won a majority of the votes despite that city's Azeri majority. Large cities in the central part of this country include Shiraz and Esfahan. For 10 points, identify this largest predominantly Shi'a country in the world, with capital Tehran.	Iran	New_York_City	False
180	"This composer's interest in the poetry of Walt Whitman is evidenced by his early Overture: Walt Whitman and a setting of Whitman's ""From Noon to Starry Night,"" The Mystic Trumpeter. He paid homage to Thomas Hardy with the tone poem, Egdon Heath, and he used a fantasia on ""The Dargason"" for the finale of two other suites: his St. Paul's Suite and his Second Suite for Military Band. His most famous composition ends with a ""fadeout"" effect from an offstage choir, opens with a militaristic theme in 5/4, and has movements subtitled ""The Winged Messenger"" and ""Bringer of Jollity."" For 10 points, name this British composer of The Planets."	Gustav Holst	Walt_Whitman	False
181	"One essay by this thinker discusses the sentence ""Scott is the author of Waverley."" This man held the view that the world consists of discrete entities which together form facts, which he called logical atomism, but later abandoned it for neutral monism. This author of ""On Denoting"" devised his ""theory of types"" to resolve the question of whether the set of all sets that are not members of itself is a member of itself, his namesake paradox. One of this man's works, written with his former tutor, attempted to derive mathematics from formal logic. For 10 points, name this logician who, with Alfred North Whitehead, wrote Principia Mathematica."	Bertrand Arthur William Russell, 3rd Earl Russell	Walter_Scott	False
182	"One character in this novel is served by Wenham and buys expensive jewels for another character. This novel features Lord Steyne and is partially set at a residence located on Great Gaunt Street. In this novel, Captain Dobbin serves in India and brings news of war during a meeting at Brighton. One character in this book goes to work for the Crawley family and marries the son Rawdon after scheming to marry Jos for his money. Its protagonist attends Miss Pinkerton's school as a child and hears George Osborn is killed during the Battle of Waterloo. For 10 points, name this ""novel without a hero"" about Amelia Sedley and Becky Sharp, written by William Makepeace Thackeray."	Vanity Fair	Vanity_Fair_(novel)	True
183	One character in this novel takes another to see Three Weeks in a Helicopter. One of its characters meets with a former lover called Tomakin after a period of drinking mescal with her lover Pope. This novel features the use of Podsnap's Technique, and characters in this novel include Helmholtz Watson and Mustapha Mond, the Resident World Controller. People in this novel worship Henry Ford and take a drug called soma. The beginning of this novel features the romance of Lenina Crowne and Bernard Marx, who witnesses the introduction of John the Savage into modern society. For 10 points, identify this dystopian novel by Aldous Huxley.	Brave New World	Brave_New_World	True
184	"This thinker argued that morality and freedom imply one another, sometimes called the reciprocity thesis. In one work, he stated that non-empirical concepts need a transcendental deduction to justify them. That work is divided into a ""Transcendental Doctrine of Elements"" and a much shorter one ""Of Methods."" This author of Groundwork of the Metaphysics of Morals contrasted material and formal principles and their corresponding hypothetical and categorical imperatives. He also claimed that the title concept of one work was related to a priori, not a posteriori, knowledge. For 10 points, name this author of the Critique of Pure Reason and the Critique of Practical Reason."	Immanuel Kant	Critique_of_Pure_Reason	False
185	In one of this author's plays, the prime minister Proteus struggles with king Magnus and his mistress Orinthia. He wrote about Tom Broadbent's trip to the title place with his partner Larry Doyle in another play. In addition to writing The Apple Cart and John Bull's Other Island, this author wrote a work about a daughter of Andrew Undershaft who is an officer in the Salvation Army. His play about Raina Petkoff takes its title from the first line of the Aeneid. This author is better known for a work centering on the education of Eliza Doolittle by Henry Higgins. For 10 points, identify this British playwright of Major Barbara, Arms and the Man, and Pygmalion.	George Bernard Shaw	Pygmalion_(play)	False
186	This substance was used in a tracer in a 1950 paper whose authors included JA Bassham and his graduate advisor. One source of it is the Clinton pile where ammonium nitrate is irradiated and the product is shipped through barium carbonate. The existence of this substance was demonstrated by Ruben and Kamen, while Libby helped develop a notable application. It is produced in the atmosphere when cosmic ray neutrons collide with nitrogen. The resulting heavy product is then incorporated into organic compounds thanks to photosynthesis.  It has a half-life of 5,730.  For 10 points, name this isotope of carbon used in radiometric dating that has two more neutron than carbon-12.	Carbon 14 [or C14]	Carbon	True
187	"This architect's namesake ""plan"" shaped the redesigning of Oklahoma City in the late 1960's and early 70's. One building by this architect sits alone on an island in the Persian Gulf, his Museum of Islamic Art in Doha. Working alongside Cobb, this man experienced many technical problems with panels falling off his John Hancock Tower. He also designed the East Wing of the National Gallery of Art in Washington D.C. and the National Center of Atmospheric Research at Colorado. For 10 points, name this Chinese architect of the glass pyramid in front of the Louvre Museum."	Ieoh Ming Pei	Oklahoma	False
188	In one of this author's novels, Roberto de la Grive becomes marooned with his alter ego Ferrante on an island across the International Date Line. In addition to The Island of the Day Before, this author wrote a novel about Belbo, Diotellavi, and Casubon, who work for a publishing company and create a worldwide conspiracy theory about the Knights Templars. This author wrote a novel about investigations of murders in an Italian monastery by Adso of Melk and William of Baskerville. For 10 points, identify this author of Baudolino, Foucault's Pendulum, and The Name of the Rose.	Umberto Eco	Foucault's_Pendulum	False
189	This artist's unfinished sculptures include the Boboli Captives and the Taddei Madonna. His statues of Night, Day, Dawn, and Dusk are inside a part of a building that contains his Laurentian Library, the Church of San Lorenzo. And he depicted the title biblical figure with a large beard and horns in his Moses. In another project that included The Deluge, he drew his self-portrait on the flayed skin of Saint Bartholomew. For 10 points, name this man who was ordered to build the dome of St. Peter's Basilica and the tomb of Pope Julius II, the painter of The Last Judgment and the ceiling of the Sistine Chapel.	Michelangelo di Lodovico Buonarroti Simoni	Michelangelo	True
190	The travels of this religion's founder with his companion Mardana, are related in the Puratan tradition. Adherents sing the nine hymns of the Sodar at sundown. The most sacred place in this religion sits in the middle of a lake enlarged by Ram Das. This religion's holiest text was appointed its eternal leader by its final human leader, Gobind Singh. This religion's followers wear the Five Ks, including the kirpan, a ceremonial sword, and worship at the Golden Temple at Amritsar. For 10 points, name this religion which was founded by the author of the Adi Granth, Guru Nanak, an Indian religion whose male adherents are often named Singh and wear turbans.	Sikhism	Guru_Granth_Sahib	False
191	A salt correction formula derived from 1998 SantaLucia paper is commonly used to design a component used in this technique. The emulsion variant of this lab procedure uses capture beads and oil in water microreactors.  That variant is used in 454 sequencing. Mastermix is a combination of many of the chemical components needed in this process. It was enzymes such as TAQ that made this technique possible because of the high temperatures. This technique typically consists of a denaturation step, followed by annealing and elongation. It uses primers and DNA polymerase.  For 10 points, name this laboratory technique which is used to amplify DNA samples.	Polymerase Chain Reaction [or PCR]	Polymerase_chain_reaction	True
192	This prime minister's government had a dispute about rescuing the namesake helicopter company in the Westland Affair, during which Defense Secretary Michael Heseltine resigned. As Education Secretary under Edward Heath, this leader stopped a program that gave free milk to school children. Ascension Island was used as a staging point in this prime minister's recapture of South Georgia in a war fought against Leopoldo Galtieri's Argentina over the Falklands. John Major replaced this leader in 1990 as head of the Conservative Party. For 10 points, name this British politician who served through the 1980s as the country's first female prime minister.	Margaret Hilda Roberts Thatcher	Falklands_War	False
193	This value can be calculated by Dodgson's condensation.  The volume of a parallelepiped is equal to the absolute value of this for an object of which the shape's bounding vectors are the components.  One can find this value by applying the Laplace expansion, which also called expansion by minors.  Taking a ratio of them can be used to solve a linear system via Cramer's rule. For an identity matrix, the value for this is one, and if this zero, then the matrix is singular. For 10 points, name this value which for a two by two matrix can be found by taking the difference of the two diagonals.	determinant	MATRIX	False
194	Dandelions and plantago are among the weeds growing in this artist's watercolor, Great Piece of Turf. An Albuquerque voyage commissioned by King Manuel I led this artist to draw an anatomically inaccurate depiction of a rhinoceros. In one work by this artist, a skull lies on a window ledge while a lion and dog sleep in front of the main figure as he compiles the Vulgate. Another work by this man shows a human skull barely visible on an irregularly sided polyhedron which lies to the left of a depressed angel. For 10 points, Saint Jerome in his Study and Melancholia I are by what German woodcut artist of the Apocalypse series?	Albrecht Durer	Skull	False
195	"The title characters in one work by this author include Urthona, Urizen, Luvah and Tharmas, and another work opens with a roar by Rintrah, the son of Los, as he shakes the fires of the underworld. This author of The Four Zoas wrote about children sold off as chimney sweepers in one poem, and this author of The Marriage of Heaven and Hell asks if God smiled ""when the stars threw down their spears"" in another poem. That poem by this author asks ""what immortal hand or eye could frame thy fearful symmetry."" For 10 points, name this British writer whose Songs of Innocence and Experience contains poems such as ""The Lamb"" and ""The Tyger""."	William Blake	Elegy_Written_in_a_Country_Churchyard	False
196	"The orbit of satellites experience this phenomenon with a frequency proportional to the radius to the negative seven halfs due to the quadrapole term in the Earth's gravitational field.  Since the Moon orbits the Earth at a slight angle to the Earth's orbit, a variation called nutation is imposed on this effect of the Equinoxes.  There are torque-free and torque-induced varieties of this phenomenon; the torque induced variety is sometimes known as the ""gyroscopic"" form. For 10 points, name this shift in the axis of a rotating body."	precession	Torque	False
197	Polydectes was one popular nickname for this Greek god who in one story transformed the nymph Leuce into a white poplar tree. This God's wife also transformed his mistress Minthe into a mint plant. Pirithous got trapped in this figure's seat for eternity after he and Theseus attempted to kidnap this god's wife, whom he had married after giving her a pomegranate. Orpheus once traveled into this man's kingdom, which includes the Asphodel Meadows and Elysium, in a failed attempt to recover his wife Eurydice. Cerberus guards the domain of this man, who in one story abducted Demeter's daughter Persephone. For 10 points, name this Greek god of the underworld.	Hades	Demeter	False
198	This composer's first and last symphony are both opened by the timpani: the first with a sustained roll over which a clarinet plays, the last with a short roll opening its sole movement. He wrote a quatrain describing the titular wood-sprite, prefacing his Tapiola. An English horn depicts a bard singing in the second movement of a suite by him that has an Alla Marcia finale. An English horn is employed in another of his works to depict the title creature, as strings depict the shimmering water it swims in. This composer of the Karelia Suite and The Swan of Tuonela wrote another work protesting Russian occupation of his native country. For 10 points, name this composer of Finlandia.	Jean Sibelius	Symphony_No._6_(Beethoven)	False
199	"One work by this man describes an investigative process as a ""virtuous circle"" rather than a ""vicious circle"" in examining both the title entity and the process of creating it. This author of ""The Origin of the Work of Art"" closely read The Critique of Pure Reason in his Kant and the Problem of Metaphysics. In another work, he said that people should be more authentic in their interactions, responding to the ""call of conscience"" to achieve their possibilities. That work described the existence of the individual as being engaged with other people and things, which he called ""Dasein"". For 10 points, name this German philosopher and Nazi supporter who authored Being and Time."	Martin Heidegger	Critique_of_Pure_Reason	False
200	A woman with a blue parasol and a child walk through a field of the title red flowers in this painter's Poppies. He painted the effects of sunlight in the fog on the title structure in his Houses of Parliament series, and showed the many different shapes of the smoke issuing from trains in his Gare Saint-Lazare series. He depicted the harbor at Le Havre in a painting that lent its name to his artistic movement, and painted a series depicting certain objects in the water near a Japanese bridge at his Giverny home. For 10 points, identify this French painter of Impression: Sunrise and many water lilies.	Oscar Claude Monet	Claude_Monet	True
201	"This poem speaks of those who wander at ""midnight in the railway yard"" and those with ""pushcarts full of onions and bad music."" The author thinks of himself as someone who is ""putting down here what might be left to say in time come after death."" Its second part laments cities as being ""robot apartments"" and ""demonic industries,"" comparing them to Moloch. Its author dedicated this work to a friend in a mental asylum, and in the third part of the poem assures him repeatedly, ""I'm with you in Rockland."" For 10 points, name this poem dedicated to Carl Solomon which begins ""I saw the best minds of my generation destroyed by madness,"" a work of Allen Ginsberg."	"""Howl"""	Howl	True
202	In one play by this author, the title character shoots himself after the honest doctor Eguene Lvov accuses him of cheating on his tubercular wife Anna.  In another of his works, Dmitri Gurov meets Anna Sergeyevna while on vacation in Yalta. This author of Ivanov and Lady with a Lapdog wrote about the Baron Tuzenbach and Kulygin, who marry two of the title characters in one play.  Another of his works sees Anya's pursuit of Trofimov and concerns Madame Ranevskaya's departure to Paris after selling the title estate to Lopakhin. For 10 points, name this Russian playwright who wrote about Olga, Irina, and Masha in Three Sisters, the author of The Cherry Orchard.	Anton Pavlovich Chekhov	The_Cherry_Orchard	False
203	"One work by this author consists of letters written to Franz Kappus at a military academy, and one poem by this author includes the lines ""We cannot know his legendary head"" and ""you must change your life."" In addition to writing Letters To a Young Poet and ""Archaic Torso of Apollo,"" one collection by this author dedicated to Vera Knoop contains fifty-five poems addressed to a mythological figure who ""performed his song,"" and another collection by this author takes its name from an Italian castle and begins, ""Who, if I cried out, would hear me among the Angelic Orders?"" For 10 points, identify this author of Sonnets to Orpheus and The Duino Elegies."	Rainer Maria Rilke	Duino_Elegies	False
204	In semiconductors, the mobility is multiplied by this entity to get drift velocity. In the Lorentz force law, unlike a similar quantity it is not multiplied by the velocity. Its divergence is equal to the charge density divided by the permittivity of space. The cross product of this quantity with the magnetic field appears in the equation for the Poynting Vector. The Stark effect refers to this entity splitting spectral lines. It polarizes dielectrics, allowing capacitors to store energy in capacitors.  For 10 points, name this field whose magnitude at a location is defined as the strength of the force divided by the point charge that experienced it.	electric field	Capacitor	False
205	"One of this man's works quotes the Aeneid to prove that gods can be conquered. That work begins with ten books attacking paganism and adopts Varro's conception of theology. He wrote a religious imitation of Cicero's Orator called De doctrina christiana. He spent most of his last twenty years attacking Pelagianism. One of his works contrasts the title entity, which contains virtuous men and angels, with a similar one ""of Man."" In one work, he describes how he rejected Manichaeism and how he was read neo-Platonist works by St. Ambrose of Milan. For 10 points, name this bishop from Hippo who wrote the City of God and the autobiographical Confessions."	St. Augustine of Hippo	Cicero	False
206	At one point in this work, two characters approach an empty boat and imagine themselves traveling two-thousand miles. At another point in this work, Countess Trifaldi tells the central character to board a flying wooden horse. One character in this work is named Samson Carrasco and disguises himself as the Knight of the White Moon to challenge the title character to a duel. This novel focuses on a man in search of his love Dulcinea who rides the steed Rocinante and attacks windmills, believing them to be giants. For 10 points, identify this novel featuring Sancho Panza and the title man of La Mancha, written by Miguel de Cervantes.	Don Quixote	Don_Quixote	True
207	A group of reinforcements missed the first day of this battle by trying to take the Shunpike Road while under the direction of Lew Wallace. A force of sixty-two cannon assembled on Duncan Field during this battle was attributed to the command of Daniel Ruggles. That artillery fired on the men of Benjamin Prentiss, whose position in this battle was nicknamed the Hornet's Nest. During the first day of this battle, the Confederate general Albert Sidney Johnston was killed. This battle is also known as the Battle of Pittsburg Landing. For 10 points, name this Civil War victory for the Union under Ulysses S. Grant fought in April 1862 in Tennessee.	Battle of Shiloh [or Battle of Pittsburg Landing before it is read]	Battle_of_Shiloh	True
208	"This composer used a habanera rhythm and the double harmonic scale to portray the title ""Evening in Granada,"" one of his Estampes. ""The Sunken Cathedral"" joins a mostly pentatonic melody in G-flat depicting the title ""Girl with the Flaxen Hair"" in his Preludes. The second movement of his most famous orchestral piece is titled ""Play of the Waves,"" while ""Doctor Gradus ad Parnassum"" and ""Golliwog's Cakewalk"" are among the movements in his Children's Corner Suite. For 10 points, name this French Impressionist composer of La Mer, Prelude to the Afternoon of a Faun, and Clair de Lune."	Claude Debussy	The_Carnival_of_the_Animals	False
209	Metachromatic leukodystrophy is caused by a problem in one enzyme of this organelle. One genetic disorder in trafficking proteins here is I-cell disease. That trafficking uses the mannose-6-phosphate modification. Pompe's disease and Tay-Sachs disease result when one of its proteins are missing. In order for its enzymes to function, it has a pH that is much more acidic than its surroundings.  One type of programmed cell death occurs when these bodies process old organelles and proteins and is called autophagy. It will often fuse with a vacuole to digest the contents of it. For 10 points, name this organelle which helps the cell to break up debris and food obtained from phagocytosis.	lysosomes	Tay–Sachs_disease	False
210	"In one work, this thinker stated that modern technology was incompatible with the irrational process of business and finance, contrasting industrial and pecuniary employment. One of his works has a chapter on ""The Belief in Luck"" and examines the title group's interest in sports like bullfighting and football. This author of The Theory of Business Enterprise has namesake goods which fall in demand when they fall in price due to a perception of lower quality. That ties in with this author's idea that the rich need a way to justify and display their wealth. For 10 points, name this economist who introduced the idea of conspicuous consumption in his Theory of the Leisure Class."	Thorstein Bunde Veblen	The_Theory_of_the_Leisure_Class	False
211	"In one story by this author, Alexander Cragie becomes fascinated with blue stones. This author of ""Blue Tigers"" wrote a story about a Babylonian king is stranded in the middle of a desert, and another about a boy who could recall a day's worth of memories at will. This author of ""The Two Kings and the Two Labyrinths"" and ""Funes the Memorious"" wrote a story about a structure of infinite hexagonal rooms, as well as a story about the murder of Dr. Stephen Albert. For 10 points, identify this author whose stories ""The Library of Babel"" and ""The Garden of Forking Paths"" are collected in Ficciones, a blind author from Argentina."	Jorge Luis Borges	Blue	False
212	"This leader launched a campaign to use the steppe to cultivate grain which was known as the Virgin Lands project. This man worked to have Lavrenty Beria executed and took power from Georgy Malenkov. This leader decried the use of secret police, poor economic policies, and a cult of personality in his Secret Speech. In another speech, this man told the West, ""We will bury you."" He allegedly banged his shoe on a desk during a UN meeting. This leader started a foreign policy of peaceful coexistence and a domestic period known as his ""thaw."" For 10 points, name this Soviet leader during the Cuban Missile Crisis who oversaw a period of de-Stalinization."	Nikita Sergeyevich Khrushchev	Soviet_Union	False
213	For an isothermal process, the change in this quantity is equal to nR (en are) times the natural log of the ratio of volumes. Heat capacity is equal to temperature times the partial derivative of this quantity with respect to temperature.  This quantity can be calculated by finding the natural logs of available microstates, and its change is equal to the change in heat divided by temperature.  It can be defined as the amount of thermal energy in a system that cannot do useful work, and the second law of thermodynamics means that for the universe this is always increasing. For 10 points, name this measurement of disorder in a system.	entropy	Heat_capacity	False
214	"The narrator of one poem by this author sees a ""luminary clock against the sky"" which ""proclaimed the time was neither wrong nor right"" while walking past ""the furthest city light."" This author of ""Acquainted with the Night"" wrote a long poem that features Warren and Mary and the death of Silas, while another of his poems asserts ""The land was ours before we were the land's."" In addition to writing ""Death of the Hired Man"" and ""The Gift Outright,"" this author wrote a poem beginning ""Two roads diverged in a yellow wood"" that ends by noting ""and that has made all the difference."" For 10 points, name this American poet of ""The Road Not Taken"" and ""Mending Wall."""	Robert Frost	The_Road_Not_Taken	False
215	A congruence class Zn (zee en) is a field if and only if n is a member of the set formed by these numbers The existence of arbitrarily long arithmetic progressions of them was proven by Green and Tao.  One theorem about these numbers states that a number a is congruent to a to the n mod n if n has this distinction. If n divides a times b and n is one of these, then n divides a or b according to Euclid's Lemma.  They can be found using the Sieve of Eratosthenes, and another result by Euclid states that there are an infinite number of them. For 10 points, name these positive integers which have no positive integer divisors other than themselves and 1.	prime numbers	Euclid	False
216	"The Presto finale of one piece by this composer consists entirely of triplets played in octaves, except for its last bar. A lone F is the only note belying the nickname of a piece that joins a work inspired by the November Uprising in this composer's Opus 10. He wrote twenty-one works in a genre pioneered by John Field. His works in another genre include one with an Andante Spianato introduction and ones nicknamed ""Heroic"" and ""Military"". For 10 points, name this composer of many Polonaises and Nocturnes, the ""Funeral March"" sonata, the ""Black-Key"" and ""Revolutionary"" etudes, and the Minute Waltz."	Frederic Chopin	Waltz	False
217	This ruler was tutored by the poet John Skelton, who appointed himself as the King's Orator when this monarch came to power. Francis Bigod's uprising against this king led to Robert Aske losing the amnesty granted earlier after Aske peacefully ended the Pilgrimage of Grace against this man. One target of that uprising, Thomas Cromwell, had been involved in this king's dissolution of the monasteries. This man increased his power after fallout with Pope Clement VII by getting the Act of Supremacy passed. For 10 points, name this king who broke with the Catholic Church in order to get his marriage to Catherine of Aragon annulled, which ended the first of his six marriages.	Henry VIII of England [prompt on Henry]	Henry_VIII	True
218	"This thinker followed the growth of agriculture and metallurgy in his Discourse on Inequality. In one work, he claimed that all passions grow out of amour de soi, including amour propre. He praised the independence of Sparta over the corruption of Athens in one work, while another advocates ""negative education,"" where children discover things for themselves. He claimed that Sovereigns should advance the cause of the general will in a work which contains the line ""man is born free, but everywhere he is in chains."" For 10 points, name this French enlightenment author of Emile, or On Education and The Social Contract."	Jean-Jacques Rousseau	Peloponnesian_War	False
219	"In one story by this author, Owen Warland creates a living mechanical butterfly for his beloved Annie. In another of his stories, Reuben is plagued by guilt for leaving Dorcas' father to die. This author of ""The Artist of the Beautiful"" and ""Roger Malvin's Burial"" wrote a story in which Colonel Killigrew and Mr. Medbourne drink water from the Fountain of Youth. This author wrote of Reverend Hooper, who alienates his parish by wearing the title headgear. This author wrote ""Dr. Heidegger's Experiment"" and ""The Minister's Black Veil."" For 10 points, identify this author of the collection Twice-Told Tales who wrote of Hester Prynne in The Scarlet Letter."	Nathaniel Hawthorne	The_Scarlet_Letter	False
220	"One meeting during this event required delegates to disguise themselves as workers to convene the Vysocany Congress. The leader of this movement launched an ""Action Program"" that was intended to change the direction of the KSC party. This period saw the publishing by Ludvik Vaculik of the ""Two Thousand Words"" manifesto. The Soviet response to this event resulted in the promulgation of the Brezhnev Doctrine. The reforms of this period were intended to bring about ""socialism with a human face."" For 10 points, name this event that resulted in a Soviet invasion of Czechoslovakia in 1968, which was a brief period of liberalization under Alexander Dubcek."	Prague Spring	Leonid_Brezhnev	False
221	This artist painted one of the title nomads attending to a brown horse at right as the title blue-robed poet reclines off left in Ovid Among the Scythians. A hand sticks out from the rubble at the foot of a despairing woman in his allegorical Greece Expiring on the Ruins of the Messolonghi. A turbaned figure on a rearing horse overlooks a field of dying people in his Massacre at Chios, while the title king watches calmly as one his slaves' throat is slit in his The Death of Sardanapalus. A little boy waves a pistol in the air as the title bare-breasted figure waves a French flag in this painter's most famous work. For 10 points, name this painter of Liberty Leading the People.	Eug?e Delacroix	Ovid	False
222	"With the author of Steps to an Ecology of Mind, this thinker wrote a ""photographic analysis"" of the denizens of an Indonesian island entitled Balinese Character. This author compared the gender equality among the Arapesh with the Tchambuli, whose men ran the household, and the fierceness of the Mudugmor. Derek Freeman argued that this author was pranked by her informants of her best-known work. This author of Sex and Temperament in Three Primitive Societies argued that American adolescents should be retrained to accept sexuality more freely, like the adolescent girls she talked to in Manu'a. For 10 points, name this author of Coming of Age in Samoa."	Margaret Mead	Coming_of_Age_in_Samoa	False
223	"One member of this crystal's namesake group with cubic structure is called cristobalite. Its interweaving with moganite produces chalcedony, and this material undergoes conchoidal fracture. Stishovite or its shocked form is found an impact craters. It has the lowest crystallization temperature on Bowen's reaction series. Pure crystals of this substance exhibit the piezoelectric effect. For 10 points, identify this mineral formed from tetrahedral of silicon dioxide, which has a value of 7 on the Mohs scale and whose varieties include ""rose,"" flint, and amethyst."	quartz [accept SiO2 before silicon dioxide]	Piezoelectricity	False
224	"This city is home to a complex called the Villa Muller. Locations in this city include the old town area of Stare Mesto and the Mala Strana, or the ""Lesser Quarter."" One landmark in this city contains a statue of St. John of Nepomuk and is called the Charles Bridge. This city is called ""the city of a hundred spires,"" and it is home to the Frank Gehry co-designed Dancing House. This city is home to the gothic St. Vitus Cathedral, and this city is home to a namesake castle that was used by the kings of Bohemia. For 10 points, identify this city located on the Vltava River, the capital of the Czech Republic."	Prague	Frank_Gehry	False
225	"This religion's calendar is divided into 19 months of 19 days each, with four or five extras as needed. One leader of this religion wrote a text inspired by the murders committed by Nasirid-Din Shah, the Epistle to the Son of the Wolf. Another of its leaders, known as the Guardian of the Cause of God, was Shoghi Effendi. Its founder wrote The Seven Valleys and The Four Valleys, and was inspired by a figure known as ""The Gate"". It is currently headquartered at the Universal House of Justice in Haifa, Israel. For 10 points, name this religion whose primary text is the ""Book of Certitude,"" an offshoot of Islam inspired by the Bab and founded by Baha'u'llah."	Baha'ism faith	Bahá'í_Faith	False
226	The Hamiltonian in the Heisenberg model of ferromagnetism is a sum of the product of a coupling constant and operators of this property.  For one type of particle, the operator for this property can be found by multiplying h bar over two by the Pauli matrix.  A g-factor of approximately two is used in the expression for an electron's magnetic moment resulting from this property. This property must differ for two electrons in the same orbital. Evidence for it came from the Stern-Gerlach Experiment. An electron can have plus or minus one half as values of this property's quantum number.  For 10 points, name this intrinsic angular momentum of a particle.	spin [accept spin angular momentum]	Stern–Gerlach_experiment	False
227	In one play by this author, Sultan Orosmane stabs the title slave when he mistakes her meeting with a priest for a romantic rendezvous. This author wrote a story about two giants visiting earth. Azora, S?ire, and Astart?are the lovers of the title Babylonian philosopher of a novel by this author. This author of Zaire, Micromegas, and Zadig, is most famous for a work whose title character kills Don Isaachar and the Grand Inquisitor, and whose teacher is given syphilis by Paquette. That character travels with a woman with one buttock along with his beloved, Cun?onde. For 10 points, the optimistic Dr. Pangloss is the creation of what French author of Candide?	Voltaire [or Fran?is-Marie Arouet]	Candide	False
228	"Clifford Brown played this instrument for Art Blakey's Jazz Messengers, as did Freddie Hubbard. Another player of this instrument cut notable recordings with Anita O'Day during his time with the Gene Krupa Orchestra. Besides Roy Eldridge, another player of this instrument won the Pulitzer Prize for his oratorio, Blood on the Fields, and is artistic director of Jazz at Lincoln Center. Another player of this instrument recorded ""Potato Head Blues"" and ""Heebie Jeebies"" with his Hot Five. One man to play it led the albums Sketches of Spain and Kind of Blue. For 10 points, name this instrument played by Wynton Marsalis, Louis Armstrong, and Miles Davis."	trumpet	Kind_of_Blue	False
229	"The figure of a dotted eighth note followed by three thirty-second notes depicts the ""Prophet Bird"" in this composer's Waldszenen. ""An Important Event"" and ""Knight of the Hobbyhorse"" are piano pieces from a set by him which also contains ""Tr?merei."" Movements in another set of his piano pieces take their names from characters he used for articles in the New Journal for Music, ""Florestan"" and ""Eusebius."" He depicted the title E.T.A. Hoffmann character in Kreisleriana and his Op. 54, Piano Concerto in A minor was premiered by his wife Clara. For 10 points, name this German composer of Scenes from Childhood, Carnaval, and the Rhenish symphony."	Robert Schumann	Piano_concerto	False
230	"A series of different colored squares form the shell of the title animal in this artist's The Snail. Ships sit in the pink waters of the harbor in one of several paintings he did of Collioure, The Open Window. In one of his paintings, a maid is arranging fruit on a platter on a table whose tablecloth bears the same color as the wallpaper. In another painting by him, the nudes reclining and playing on a yellow lawn include a group dancing in a ring, a trope he would revisit in his painting The Dance. He used a technique he called ""drawing with scissors"" for his Blue Nudes series. For 10 points, name this French Fauvist of The Joy of Life and Harmony in Red."	Henri Matisse	The_Yellow_Wallpaper	False
231	"One son of this god was a charioteer of King Oenomaus who removed the pins from his master's chariot, allowing Pelops to win the hand of Hippodamia and was named Myrtilus. This god was called ""thrice-great,"" or Trismegistus, when worshipped as an analogue of the Egyptian Thoth. This deity was born on Mt. Cyllene to Maia. He killed the hundred-eyed Argos, and his namesake son with Aphrodite was seduced by and merged with Salmacis. He also fathered Pan, created the first lyre, and had winged sandals. For 10 points, name this caduceus-wielding messenger god, the Greek analog of Mercury."	Hermes [accept Mercury until mentioned]	Thoth	False
232	"Leonard Howell set forth six fundamental principles for this religion. One sect of this religion believes that each member of the religion is a member of one of twelve houses and was founded by Vernon Carrington. Branches of this religion are known as ""mansions.""  Important texts in this religion include The Holy Piby and The Kebra Nagast.  This religion's slang is called Iyaric and ""I-and-I"" is used to refer to the oneness of God. Worshippers are forbidden from eating pork, shellfish, and red meat, because they make the body a cemetery. That diet is called I-tal and practitioners of this religion are exiles from Babylon.  Adherents to this religion believe that Haile Selassie is Jah and try to expel corruption from their bodies by smoking ganja. For 10 points, name this religion popular in Jamaica."	Rastafarianism [accept Rastafari Movement]	Haile_Selassie	False
233	"In one work, this thinker wrote that ""the proper office of benevolence is to soften the partial evils arising from self-love, but it can never be substituted in its place."" He called for less reliance on foreign politics in The Grounds of an Opinion, while another work defines a certain concept as ""the reward of present valour and wisdom as well as of past strength."" Elsewhere, he argued that ""moral restraint"" is the only feasible ""preventative check,"" but will not succeed without universal suffrage and education. This author of Inquiry into the Nature and Progress of Rent used that work to present some ""Remarks on the Speculations of Mr. Godwin, Condorcet, and Other Writers,"" arguing that means of subsistence increase by an arithmetic ratio doomed to lag behind the geometric ratio of population increase. For 10 points, name this British classical economist who wrote Essay on the Principal of Population."	Thomas Malthus	Thomas_Robert_Malthus	False
234	"A double analytic continuation of this type of solution reveals the ""bubble of nothing"" instability of the Kaluza-Klein vacuum, as discovered by Edward Witten. Recently, a correspondence between a chiral half of a two-dimensional conformal field theory and those of extremal Kerr type has been suggested. Above a minimum temperature, anti de Sitter space has a phase transition to a space containing one of these, as shown by Page and Hawking. They have entropy proportional to their area, and a temperature proportional to their surface gravity. Supermassive ones lie at the center of most or all galaxies. For 10 points, what are these objects in general relativity, discovered originally by Karl Schwarzschild, from which light does not escape?"	"black hole [accept Schwarzschild until the word ""chiral""]"	General_relativity	False
235	"This author reminisced about his time visiting with William Drummond in ""My Picture Left in Scotland"" and characterized a Spaniard as having ""a Rhinoceroses' nose"" in ""On Don Surly.""  This author borrowed from Quintilian in advocating for a writer's personal style in the volume Timber; or Discoveries, while another of his works features the line, ""Make room for the bouncing belly."" That work, which ends with Daedalus leading some dances, is entitled Pleasure Reconciled to Virtue, and was staged in collaboration with Inigo Jones.  This author's imitation of Horace, Inviting a Friend to Supper, was published alongside the country manor poem ""To Penshurst"" in a 1616 collection that also featured a piece beginning, ""Drink to me only with thine eyes."" For 10 points, identify this author of the ""Ode on Cary and Morrison,"" ""To Celia,"" as well as the plays Bartholomew Fair and Volpone."	Ben Jonson	Volpone	False
236	"A Kragli, or bandit lord, from Bushat set up a dynasty in this country's north while a Kragli from Tepelen set up a fiefdom controlling the south. Six centuries earlier the state of Arber was established in its north and five centuries earlier, in 1272, Charles of Anjou declared himself its king. In 1878, the League of Prizren established a common alphabet, later fully adopted along with a common language at the Congress of Bitolj. Four years later it had its first modern Mpret, or king, the figurehead prince Wilhelm of Wied, whose brief rule followed its declaration of independence at Vlore. For a long time referred to as ""northern Epirus,"" its native name is Shiqperia, or ""land of the Eagles."" For 10 points, name this country whose longest serving king was Ahemd Zogu or Zog I, and whose longest serving leader was the communist dictator Enver Hoxha."	Albania (accept early buzz of Shiqperia or Shiqperise or Shiqipnia before Shiqperia is mentioned)	Martin_Luther_King_Jr.	False
237	In one section of this book, a husband confesses that he murdered his wife because he saw a slave carrying one of the three apples he bought for her, after a fisherman discovers her body chopped into pieces in a chest. In some translations, this book ends with the story of Jullanar of the Sea. In another section of this work, a little hunchback chokes to death on a piece of fish provided by a tailor, resulting in a Jewish physician, a Muslim purveyor, and a Christian merchant all claiming responsibility for the hunchback's death, before that hunchback is restored to life by a barber. Many stories in this book focus on Ja'far ibn Yahya and the caliph Haroun al-Rashid. For 10 points, name this book translated into English by Richard Burton, whose frame narrative consists of King Shahryar listening to the stories told by Scheherezade.	The Arabian Nights' Entertainments [or The One Thousand and One Nights; or The Book of The Thousand Nights and One Night; or Alf Laylah wa Laylah]	One_Thousand_and_One_Nights	True
238	"Hindemith wrote one in E-flat major that stressed thematic material rather than contrapuntal procedure, while Milhaud wrote one during his residence in Rio de Janeiro that includes a slow movement in the style of a funeral march.  Borodin's second one contains a notable Nocturne and was written in D major.  Another one of these compositions features a coda where a high E over a tremolo simulates what its composer described as ""the fatal whistling in my ear.""  That piece was subtitled From My Life and was the first of two by Smetana.  Of the 13 composed by Dvorak, his most famous was the Native American inspired ""American"" one, while a set of three of them, named for the Russian ambassador to the Hapsburg court, Andreas Razumovsky, was written by Beethoven.  For 10 points, identify this type of musical composition, typically scored for a cello, a viola, and two violins."	"String Quartet [accept equivalents; prompt on ""Quartet""]"	Paul_Hindemith	False
239	"This work defines three levels of ""creativity"" and cites the example of a man who knows he hates oysters but has never tried them in a section that addresses balancing the need to know with the fear of knowing.  Another section describes the dangers of ""B-cognition"" which can make actions impossible.  This work's discussion of ""peak experiences"" offers an alternate take on one of its author's key ideas and it sets out a checklist of the characteristics that define healthy humans including ""more openness to experience"" and ""the ability to love.""  This work, which also features a chapter on the value of existentialism, ends with an appendix that asks, ""Is a normative social psychology possible?"" and is an elaboration of ideas its author previously presented in Motivation and Personality.  For 10 points, identify this work that outlines how human beings can become self-actualized, a work by Abraham Maslow."	Toward a Psychology of Being	Abraham_Maslow	False
240	For de Sitter space it is finite, as shown by Gibbons and Hawking, due to the presence of a cosmological horizon. The entanglement version of it measures the amount of correlation between two different subsystems. The conditional version of it incorporates known information and is bounded above by the absolute one. For a classical ideal gas, it scales as the number of particles times the log of the volume, the precise statement of which is known as the Sackur-Tetrode equation. Given the assumption of molecular chaos one can prove the H-theorem of Boltzmann, showing that it increases, as demanded by the Second Law of Thermodynamics. For 10 points, what is this measure of the number of microstates in a system, which is usefully thought of as a measure of disorder?	entropy	Ludwig_Boltzmann	False
241	This author created the vainglorious Aristabalus Bragg in a work about the Effingham family's return to New York, Home as Found. He described the romance of Lucy Hardinge in Afloat and Ashore, a story that would be continued in Miles Wallingford.   He wrote of monkeys traveling in Europe and set another work in 16th Century Bavaria.  In addition to The Monikins and The Heidenmauer, he wrote about politics in A Letter to his Countrymen and The American Democrat, while his trilogy about the Anti-Rent War included the novel The Chainbearer.  Characters created by this man include Harvey Birch, in a story of Revolutionary War intrigue, as well as Judith Hutter, who appears in a series of novels that also features Cora Munro, the evil Magua, and the noble Uncas.  For 10 points, identify this author of The Spy who chronicled the adventures of  Natty Bumppo in the Leather-Stocking Tales.	James Fennimore Cooper	The_Last_of_the_Mohicans	False
242	"This poet asked ""why should a man wax tears, when his wooden world fails?"" in a sonnet whose speaker attempts to describe ""faiths that were snapped like wire"" after ""that hot gospeller has levelled all but the churched sky.""  This poet observed ""The classics can console. But not enough"" in a poem which compares ""that father and husband's longing"" to ""the adulterer hearing Nausicaa's name in every gull's outcry."" This poet wrote ""either I'm nobody, or I'm a nation"" in a poem narrated by the sailor Shabine. This poet of ""The Schooner Flight,"" ""A City's Death by Fire,"" and ""Sea Grapes"" wrote ""a smell of dead limes quickens in the nose / The leprosy of empire"" in a poem comparing colonial England to a rotting mansion, ""Ruins of a Great House."" In a long poem by this author, Ma Kilman heals the wound of Philoctete and Major Plunkett researches the history of St. Lucia. For 10 points, name this Caribbean poet of Omeros."	Derek Walcott	Elegy_Written_in_a_Country_Churchyard	False
243	"A type of magnetoresistive RAM uses a spin-polarized current to reorient the magnetization of a layer of a TMR element; that type is called spin this transfer. A stepper motor has different ""pull-in"" and ""pull-out"" values of this. In 1939 Richard Beth measured this exerted on a doubly-refracting plate by polarized light. The cogging type of this is minimized in motors and results from the interaction between rotor and stator magnets. Four strain gauges in a Wheatstone bridge configuration are called a ""load cell"" or a this ""transducer,"" which is one component of a quality-control device that measures this quantity. Precession is called ""gyroscopic"" if induced by this quantity. For 10 points, name this cross product of displacement with force, equal to the time derivative of angular momentum, the rotational analogue of force."	torque	Spin_(physics)	False
244	"A speaker in one of this author's works predicts that ""You shall be true to them who are false to you.""  In addition to ""The Indifferent,"" this author penned a work that compares the bravery of passion to that of the nine worthies in ""The Undertaking.""  This author responded to Marlowe's Passionate Shepherd to His Love with ""The Bait,"" and celebrated ""full nakedness"" in an Elegy subtitled ""To His Mistress Going to Bed.""  He wrote a set of five Satires, as well as two poems on the death of his patron, Robert Drury's daughter: the Anniversaries, one of which includes the oft anthologized ""An Anatomy of the World.""  A 1633 collection by this man, the Songs and Sonnets, included a work that compared a pair of souls to ""stiff twin compasses.""  For 10 points, name this author of the line ""Death, be not proud,"" a Metaphysical poet whose works include the Holy Sonnets and ""A Valediction: Forbidding Mourning."""	John Donne	Sonnets_from_the_Portuguese	False
245	A medieval poet from this nation developed a nine line stanza that is given his name and was used in his collection of Flower Songs. A playwright from this country wrote about a man who spends sixteen years in purgatory but is given a chance to visit his daughter, after he commits suicide when he is caught stealing money to help his family. That author of Liliom hails from this nation, whose epic describes the heroics of Nicholas Zrinski defending Sziget during a siege by the forces of Suleyman the Magnificent. A modern author from this country wrote about a man who refuses to have a child in a world full of atrocities in his Kaddish for a Child not Born, and wrote a semi-autobiographical work about his experiences during the Holocaust in Fatelessness. For 10 points, identify this country home to such authors as Valentin Balassi, Ferenc Molnar, Miklos Zrinyi, and Imre Kertesz.	Hungary [or Magyarorsz?]	Suicide	False
246	"Major commentaries on this work were written by ""Odd Tablet"" and Zhiyanzhai, and it first became known to the public after an edition was published by Cheng Weiyuan and Gao E. This novel, which was notably translated into English by David Hawkes, features a frame story in which Zhen Shi-yin reads the lines ""truth becomes fiction when the fiction's true / Real becomes not-real when the unreal's real"" during a reverie which begins with the fairy Disenchantment deciding to reincarnate the Crimson Pearl Flower. This novel's main plot describes the love between Lin Dai-yu and Bao-yu during the downfall of the Jia family, and the lives of the ""Twelve Beauties of Jinling."" For 10 points, name this eighteenth century classic Chinese novel written by Cao Xuequin."	The Story of the Stone [or Dream of the Red Chamber; or A Dream of Red Mansions; or Red Chamber Dream; or Hung Lou Meng]	Dream_of_the_Red_Chamber	True
247	A depiction of this figure by Bartolommeo Bandinelli is housed in the Bargello and is referred to as the Cleopatra one. In the same building is Giambologna's bronze of this figure, which was inspired by another sculpture of him in the same room. That sculpture shows this figure with a faun sitting on a rock beneath his right hand and is one of the major works of Jacopo Sansovino.  A huge depiction of him from the 2nd century AD which shows him with a panther was once housed in the Villa Ludovisi.  Another depiction of this figure in the Bargello shows him holding a kylix in his right hand and a tiger skin in his left; that sculpture, which notably features a broken penis, was created in 1497 by Michelangelo.  A better known sculpture shows this deity cradled in the left arm of another god.  For 10 points, name this god who was depicted with Hermes as an infant in a sculpture by Praxiteles.	Bacchus or Dionysus	Praxiteles	False
248	"In one story by this author, the narrator and his wife follow their Uncle Augusto's suggestion and move to a region where Captain Brauni's inventions and the Corporation's ""molasses system"" do nothing to kill the title insects.  In another of his stories, Amerigo Ormea goes to the Hospital for Incurables to monitor an election.  In addition to ""The Argentine Ant"" and ""The Watcher,"" he wrote about ""The Aquatic Uncle"" and ""The Distance of the Moon"" in a 1965 story collection, while one of his novels begins on June 15, 1767, when Cosimo Piovasco di Rondo sits with his family for the last time.  For 10 points, name this author of the novel The Baron in the Trees and the stories collected in Cosmicomics, who also wrote If on a Winter's Night a Traveler."	Italo Calvino	If_on_a_winter's_night_a_traveler	False
249	"One of this author's books includes a poem which asks ""Whither away, brisk egg?"" and describes ""Tortoise Family Connections.""  That book of ""unrhyming poems"" opens with a prose poem noting that ""fruits are all of them female,"" and includes poems describing ""birds, beasts, and flowers.""  Another of his poetry books depicts a protagonist who throws in his lot with a woman who is already married, though they eventually ""transcend into some condition of blessedness.""  In addition to Look! We Have Come Through!, he wrote the volume Pansies and a poem which implores the reader to ""build your ship of death.""  This British author's novels include one about an amateur flautist, Aaron's Rod, as well as a novel about Gertrude Coppard and her son, Paul Morel.  For 10 points, name this author of Kangaroo and Sons and Lovers."	David Herbert Lawrence	Sons_and_Lovers	False
250	Recently it has been proposed that they may be the source of high-energy cosmic ray positrons observed by the Pamela, ATIC, and Fermi-LAT experiments, which would require nearby ones like B0656+14 or Geminga. The first extrasolar planets to be discovered, in 1992, were found orbiting one in the Virgo constellation. They typically have magnetic fields of order a trillion gauss. A very young one, produced during the SN 1054 supernova, had an initial rotational energy of around 10 to the 50 ergs and lies at the center of the Crab Nebula. The first observation of one was made at the Mullard Radio Astronomy Observatory in 1967, by Jocelyn Bell and Antony Hewish. For 10 points, what are these rapidly rotating neutron stars that emit regular bursts of radiation?	pulsar	Crab_Nebula	False
251	"In one of this author's short stories, a man staying in a palace built by Emperor Mahmud Shah II is intoxicated by its illusions before being snapped back to reality by Meher Ali. In another of this author's short stories, Nandalal abandons his maid Ratan after teaching her how to write. Besides writing ""The Hungry Stones"" and ""The Postmaster,"" this author wrote a short story in which Amal leaves for England after realizing that Bhupati's wife Charu is in love with him, as well as a story in which Chidam's wife Chandara accepts the blame for Dukhiram's murder of Radha. This author of ""The Broken Nest"" and ""Punishment"" collected his short stories in Galpaguchchha. This author's poem ""Amar Sonar Bangla"" was chosen as the national anthem of Bangladesh. For 10 points, name this Bengali author of a collection translated into English as ""Song Offerings,"" Gitanjali."	Rabindranath Tagore	Gitanjali	False
252	"One aria in this opera contains two lines from the crowd that help to situate events when a certain figure ""unfurled his seven flags."" Emotional peaks in that aria come with such lines as ""quel grido e quella morte!,"" referencing the ""desperate cry"" that resounded for a thousand years. In the following act of this opera another female character sings ""Tu che di gel sei cinta"" amidst unhappier circumstances than her earlier ""Signore, ascolta!"" to which the man she loves unrequitedly sings back by telling her ""don't cry."" At its premier, Toscanini refused to continue on to the ending added by the composer's pupil, Franco Alfano, ending the performance shortly after the scene of Liu's death. For 10 points, name this work in which three riddles are successfully answered by Calaf, who also sings the aria ""Nessun Dorma,"" the final opera of Giacomo Puccini."	Turandot	Turandot	True
253	"One ruler of this nation dismissed the cabinet of his Prime Minister Zahle in an incident known as the Easter Crisis, but he was met with a lack of public support and pledged no longer to interfere in political decisions. A peasant uprising in this country known as the Count's War was initiated by a group under Skipper Clement. This country, which originally established a colony at Tranquebar, was the site of a underground movement during World War II known as its namesake ""Freedom Council,"" consisting of groups like its Unity Party. Also the birthplace of the wife of King James I of England, this country sold its rights to St. Croix, St. John, and St. Thomas to the United States in 1917. Governed by the Folketing, for 10 points, name this nation which hosted the Battle of Copenhagen in 1801."	Denmark	Easter	False
254	"Thomas Jefferson had a bust of this figure in Monticello on the first floor in the Entrance Hall. A notable sculpture of him was inspired by a Roman statue entitled Old Fisherman depicting a dying Seneca. That statue shows him with emaciated flesh and engorged veins and prompted an offer from King Gustavus III of Sweden to pay for clothes as a result of the scandal over this figure being sculpted nude.  In response, another sculpture of this man was done clothing him in fine drapery and based on several posing sessions he did upon his return to Paris in 1778. That sculpture of him ""seated"" initially proved more popular than the nude done by Jean Pigalle. For 10 points, name this writer sculpted several times by Jean-Antoine Houdon."	Voltaire (or Francois-Marie Arouet)	Gustavus_Adolphus	False
255	This painting was reenacted in an Eve Sussman film that lasts eighty-nine seconds. A man with a bent knee is depicted in a doorway in the background of this work, which also shows a mirror reflecting the artist's patrons. A large canvas facing away from the viewer occupies the left part of this work, which is set in the artist's studio in the Alcazar palace. A large mastiff is seated by the foot of a dwarf in this work's bottom right. For 10 points, name this painting depicting the Infanta Margarita and family of Philip IV of Spain, by Diego Velazquez.	Las Meninas [or The Maids of Honor; or The Ladies in Waiting]	Las_Meninas	True
256	"This author wrote of Sally Carol Happer, a southern belle who cannot stand the cold and impersonal north of her fiancé Harry Bellamy, in his short story ""The Ice Palace."" In a novel, this author told of Rosemary Hoyt's affair with a psychiatrist who marries his own patient, Nicole. This author, who created Dick Diver in Tender is the Night, wrote another work that is narrated by Nick Carraway. In that novel, George Wilson shoots the title character, who tries to rekindle his affair with Daisy Buchanan. For 10 points, name this author of the Jazz Age novel The Great Gatsby."	F. Scott Fitzgerald [or Francis Scott Key Fitzgerald]	Tender_Is_the_Night	False
257	"The cross product of this quantity's vector with the L vector, minus ""mass times k times r-hat,"" gives the Laplace- Runge-Lenz vector. One law governing this quantity is a consequence of the Lagrangian's translational invariance. The time rate of change in this quantity is equal to a particle's net force according to Newton's second law. Taking Planck's constant over this quantity gives a particle's de Broglie wavelength. Like all closed systems, both inelastic and elastic collisions conserve this quantity. For 10 points, name this quantity that equals mass times velocity."	linear momentum [do not accept “angular momentum”]	Momentum	True
258	"In one paper, this thinker argued that technological advancement in ""machine processes"" occurs because of the ""instinct of workmanship."" He wrote a work in which the title group is likened to barbarians because its members do not produce, but merely make money by shuffling around what others make. He names a set of luxury goods for which the demand increases as price increases. He coined the phrase ""conspicuous consumption"" to describe the title social group of one of his works. For 10 points, name this sociologist who wrote The Theory of the Leisure Class."	Thorstein Bunde Veblen [or Torsten Bunde Veblen]	The_Theory_of_the_Leisure_Class	False
259	The protagonist of this novel is shaken when his mother dies from scarlet fever after treating his adopted sister, Elizabeth Lavenza. This novel's title character studies philosophy and chemistry at the University of Ingolstadt, where he becomes obsessed with the alchemist Paracelsus. This novel is recounted through a series of letters from Captain Robert Walton, who rescues the title character in the Arctic, where he had been seeking his creation. For 10 points, name this novel by Mary Shelley in which the title character is a professor who creates a monster.	Frankenstein; or, The Modern Prometheus	The_Alchemist	False
260	"One of this leader's famous actions was a response to a speech by Lorenzo Sumulong accusing his country of hypocrisy. He authorized Walter Ulbricht to build a barrier to ""brain drain."" An Ilya Ehrenburg novel gave its title to this man's namesake ""thaw,"" which began when he gave an anti-Stalinist ""secret speech."" He negotiated the withdrawal of American missiles from Turkey. For 10 points, name this Soviet premier during the Cuban Missile Crisis who banged his shoe on the podium during a speech at the UN."	Nikita Sergeyevich Khrushchev	Soviet_Union	False
261	"In one work, this thinker claimed that aesthetics depends on four ""reflective judgments:"" the agreeable, beautiful, sublime, and good. He described conflicting sets of laws as ""antinomies."" He contrasted the ideal ""noumenon"" or ""thing in itself"" with the sensory world, or ""phenomenon."" He questioned the existence of synthetic a priori truths, and proposed that people should act only by maxims that they would impose universally. For 10 points, name this formulator of the ""categorical imperative,"" a Prussian philosopher who wrote the Critique of Pure Reason."	Immanuel Kant	Critique_of_Pure_Reason	False
262	In one of this author's novels, the protagonist compares the concentric circles of Hell to Amsterdam after witnessing a woman jump off of a bridge. This creator of Jean-Baptiste Clamence wrote a novel in which thousands of rats die in Bernard Rieux's hometown of Oran. In another novel, he wrote of a man who helps Ramon Sintes beat up an unfaithful girlfriend, fails to weep at his mother's funeral, and kills a man on the beach for no real reason. For 10 points, name this author of The Fall and The Plague, who created the Arab-slaying Meursault in The Stranger.	Albert Camus	The_stranger	False
263	"During this president's time in office, real estate taxes prompted John Fries to launch a rebellion in Pennsylvania. As an attorney, he represented British Captain Thomas Preston, who was acquitted for his role in the Boston Massacre. In a letter, this man's wife urged him to ""remember the Ladies"" in making laws. As president, he reacted to the Quasi-War with France, appointed John Marshall and the ""midnight judges,"" and supported the Alien and Sedition Acts. For 10 points, name this Federalist rival of Thomas Jefferson, a U.S. President whose son was also President."	John Adams [prompt on Adams; accept the older Adams or equivalents that disambiguate him from his son; do not accept “John Quincy Adams” or “J.Q. Adams”]	Thomas_Jefferson	False
264	"Dissolving sodium in this compound creates the donor electrons that drive the reduction of benzene in the Birch reduction. Dissolving a precipitate in this compound is the final step in producing the Tollens reagent, which displays a ""silver mirror"" in the presence of aldehydes. This molecule is oxidized to form nitric acid in the industrial Ostwald process. Iron or ruthenium typically catalyzes the reaction that forms this compound from hydrogen gas and nitrogen found in the air. For 10 points, name this molecule produced in the Haber-Bosch process, with chemical formula NH3."	ammonia [or NH3 before mentioned]	Haber_process	False
265	This country's communist party was founded by Jose Mariategui. This country's confederation with Bolivia was dissolved after it was defeated in the War of the Confederation. This nation gained independence after the battle of Ayacucho. Along with Bolivia, it was defeated by Chile in the War of the Pacific. Alan Garcia is the current president of this country, where Abimael Guzman founded a Maoist terrorist organization known as the Shining Path. For 10 points, name this country, which is historically ruled from Lima.	Republic of Peru [or Republica de Peru]	Bolivia	False
266	This deity committed a crime witnessed by the shepherd Battus, whom this god turned to stone. He fathered the goddess of fortune, Tyche. He rescued Io by defeating the one hundred-eyed Argus. Odysseus was immune to Circe's spells because this god gave him the herb moly. This son of Maia stole several of Apollo's cattle, one of which he killed to fashion the first lyre. This god gave Perseus some magic items and told him where the Gray Sisters lived. This god owns the caduceus and some winged sandals. For 10 points, name this Greek messenger deity.	Hermes [accept Mercury before “Greek”]	Odysseus	False
267	These particles were fired at nickel during the Davisson-Germer experiment. They interact with each other during hyperconjugation. Feynman diagrams use a solid arrow pointing towards an interaction vertex to represent this particle, which is emitted with a corresponding antineutrino in beta-minus decay. This particle's charge is negative 1.602 times ten to the negative nineteenth coulombs, a value approached within one percent in Millikan's oil-drop experiment. For 10 points, name these negatively charged subatomic particles.	electrons	Davisson–Germer_experiment	False
268	In one of this author's novels, seventeen half-brothers with the same first name are marked for death by permanent Ash Wednesday crosses. He wrote about Dr. Urbino's death while trying to capture a parrot in a novel that ends with Florentino Ariza and Fermina Daza sailing down a river while flying a yellow flag. This author of Love in the Time of Cholera created Remedios, Aurileano, and other descendents of Ursula and Jose Arcadio Buendia in a novel set in Macondo. For 10 points, name this magical realist author who wrote One Hundred Years of Solitude.	Gabriel García Márquez [prompt on partial answer]	Love_in_the_Time_of_Cholera	False
269	This architect used reinforced concrete as the primary material for his Unity Temple in Oak Park. He used oya stone in an Aztec-inspired design that survived a magnitude 8.3 earthquake. He emphasized horizontal lines and overhanging eaves in his Robie House. This architect of the Imperial Hotel in Tokyo created a helical spiral for the New York Guggenheim Museum. This architect also designed the home of Edgar Kaufmann over a running creek. For 10 points, name this architect who established the Prairie Style and designed Fallingwater.	Frank Lloyd Wright	Tokyo	False
270	The grandson of this dynasty's founder was overthrown in a coup by his uncle, the Prince of Yan. This dynasty's last emperor, Chongzhen, was dethroned by the peasant Li Zicheng. Its first emperor came to power during the Red Turban Rebellion and was known as Zhu Yuanzhang, the Hongwu Emperor. One of its rulers, the Yong-le emperor, sent Zheng He on exploratory naval missions, commissioned the Forbidden City, and moved the capital to Beijing. For 10 points, name this Chinese dynasty that succeeded the Yuan and preceded the Qing, known for its porcelain.	Ming dynasty [or Da Ming Chao; or Empire of the Great Ming]	Ming_dynasty	True
271	"This thinker championed the idea of ""eternal return,"" that everything has already happened and will happen again. He claimed that it is foolish to call a predator amoral simply because it is a predator in his discussion of the ""Blond Beast,"" which appears in a work in which he contrasts moralities based on consequences and intentions. This formulator of the ""master/slave morality"" proposed the übermensch and declared that ""God is dead."" For 10 points, name this German philosopher who wrote The Gay Science, Beyond Good and Evil, and Thus Spoke Zarathustra."	Friedrich Wilhelm Nietzsche	Thus_Spoke_Zarathustra	False
272	The protagonist of this work visits the estate of Pemberley after ensuring that the owner is away. Lady Catherine warns its protagonist not to accept her nephew's wedding offer near the end of this novel, in which Charlotte Lucas marries Mr. Collins. One relationship in this novel is kindled at Bingley's ball at Netherfield. In this novel, Lydia runs away with the treacherous, lady-spoiling Wickham. For 10 points, name this novel that focuses on the Bennet sisters, and ends with the marriage of Elizabeth to Mr. Darcy, written by Jane Austen.	Pride and Prejudice	Pride_and_Prejudice	True
273	This man gave the Invocavit sermons and opposed the Peasant's War. The papal bull Exsurge Domine was issued against this man by Pope Leo X. He opposed Johann Tetzel before being compared to Jan Hus by Johann Eck. This man was intercepted by Frederick III and taken to Wartburg Castle during his return trip from a meeting at which Charles V called him a heretic, the Diet of Worms. For 10 points, name this monk who started the Protestant Reformation when he nailed Ninety-Five Theses to a church door in Wittenberg.	Martin Luther	Martin_Luther	True
274	"When these materials are modeled as ""freely jointed"" objects, they behave as rigid rods on the scale of the persistence length. Synthetic condensation, or ""step growth,"" is one classification of these materials. ""Addition"" or ""chaingrowth"" varieties of these structures see no loss or gain of materials. Ziegler-Natta catalysts are useful in syntheses of these materials that use alkenes as a base unit. For 10 points, name these chemical molecules that are large chains of individual molecules, examples of which include polypropylene and polystyrene."	polymers [do not accept “monomers”]	Alkene	False
275	"One character in this novel is a pope's daughter who was forced to eat one of her own buttocks cheeks when taken prisoner by Muslims. Its title character is accompanied by the dour philosopher Martin, and encounters the city of El Dorado with Cacambo. It begins when the title character is thrown out of Baron Thunder-ten-Tronckh's castle for kissing Cunegonde. The title character claims that we must all tend our garden at the end of this novel, which is set in the ""best of all possible worlds,"" according to Dr. Pangloss. For 10 points, name this novel by Voltaire."	Candide	Candide	True
276	"This artist painted a work in which soldiers battle in the foreground as a large, black cloud menaces overhead, shrouding the sun and the mountains in the background. In addition to Hannibal and His Army Crossing the Alps, he created a work in which boats of onlookers stream through the Parliament Bridge to watch Westminster Palace burn. He painted a ship ""tugged to her last berth to be broken up"" in The Fighting Temeraire. For 10 points, name this British Romanticist who showed a train barreling across a bridge in his painting Rain, Steam, and Speed."	J.M.W. Turner [or Joseph Mallord William Turner]	Hannibal	False
277	"This man said that farmers are ""neither better nor worse than any other people"" in a campaign speech. He claimed that his party was a ""sectional party"" in a speech at the Cooper Union that was instrumental in earning him the presidential nomination. He defeated John Breckenridge and John Bell in his first presidential election. He engaged in a series of 1858 debates with the man who advanced the Freeport Doctrine, Stephen Douglass. For 10 points, name this winner of the presidential election of 1860, who later issued the Emancipation Proclamation."	Abraham Lincoln	United_States_presidential_election,_1912	False
278	"Relativistic effects cause a lateral adjustment in this phenomenon in its ""transverse"" type, which was confirmed experimentally by Ives and Stilwell. The classical formula describing this effect contains terms that represent the source and receiver velocities. This effect causes stellar objects to appear shifted towards the red or blue ends of the spectrum. For 10 points, name this effect in which waves coming from an object moving relative to an observer appear to change frequency, which is employed in weather radar."	Doppler effect	Charles_Ives	False
279	"In one story by this author, a peasant stoops to pick up a bit of string, causing his fellow townsmen to accuse him of stealing a purse. He created a title character who sleeps with a Prussian officer so a traveling party can leave Totes. In another of his stories, Monsieur Loisel uses the money he had been saving for a rifle to buy his wife a dress, after which she borrows the title object from Madame Forestier. In that story, the protagonist borrows a piece of jewelry that is made out of paste. For 10 points, name this French author who wrote ""The Ball of Fat"" and ""The Necklace."""	Guy de Maupassant	The_Necklace	False
280	This man's troops donned surplus slaughterhouse tunics while fighting against Juan Manuel de Rosas. In another campaign, he won at Calatafimi after landing at Marsala. He was ordered not to attack Trentino, but he earlier defeated the Neapolitans at the Volturno River. This leader of the Expedition of the Thousand allied with the prime minister of Sardinia-Piedmont, the Count di Cavour, to install Victor Emmanuel II as king. For 10 points, name this leader of the Red Shirts during the Risorgimento, the military leader behind Italian unification.	Giuseppe Garibaldi	Italy	False
281	"This faith uses the Ik Onkar symbol to represent the ""one god."" This religion's marriage ceremony is called the Anand Karaj. Its three pillars are Kirat, Karni, and Vand Chakko. Its followers have faith in a supreme being called Waheguru. Early leaders of this religion include Ram Das and Arjan Dev. Uncut hair and wooden combs are two of the ""five Ks"" of this religion, whose sacred texts include the Bani, Chupai, and the Adi Granth. For 10 points, name this religion, which believes that Nanak was the first of ten gurus."	Sikhism	Guru_Nanak	False
282	"In a story by this author, the Handicapper General enforces Amendments 211 to 213, which ensure that all are equal. He wrote a novel in which the protagonist's research for the book The Way the World Ended leads him to realize that Felix Hoenikker has created a substance that can freeze the oceans. This author of ""Harrison Bergeron"" and creator of ice-nine wrote a novel in which the protagonist is kidnapped by Tralfamadorians after spending time in a POW camp in Dresden. For 10 points, name this creator of Billy Pilgrim, the author of Cat's Cradle and Slaughterhouse-Five."	Kurt Vonnegut Jr.	Slaughterhouse-Five	False
283	"This ruler's third wife, Fastrada, had fought against him with Widukind's Saxons. He ushered in a ""Renaissance"" that included such scholars as Alcuin of York and this man's biographer, Einhard. Three of his grandsons carved up his empire in the Treaty of Verdun. This ruler defeated the Lombards at Pavia, though his rear guard lost to Basques at Ronceveaux Pass. In 800 CE, this predecessor of Louis the Pious was crowned by Pope Leo III as ""King of the Romans."" For 10 points, name this son of Pepin the Short, a great Frankish king of the Carolingian dynasty."	Charlemagne [or Charles I; or Charles the Great; or Karl der Grosse from any Germans]	Charlemagne	True
284	"This composer was briefly engaged to the Belgian mezzo-soprano Désirée Artôt, to whom he dedicated his Six French Songs. Among his symphonies are his unnumbered Manfred Symphony, one subtitled ""Polish,"" and one whose second movement features a waltz-like melody in five-four time. His Marche Slave shares parts with a composition that is partly scored for cannon fire. He also wrote a ballet that features the ""Dance of the Sugarplum Fairy."" For 10 points, name this Russian composer of the Pathétique Symphony, the 1812 Overture, and The Nutcracker."	Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky [or Peter Ilich Tchaikovsky]	The_Nutcracker	False
285	The protonation of nitric acid by this compound creates greater-than-normal amounts of nitronium ions, which are used to nitrate benzene in a textbook electrophilic aromatic substitution reaction. The dehydrating property of this substance is often demonstrated by pouring it over sucrose. The production of this compound was revolutionized by the use of lead-lined chambers. It is now produced using a vanadium(2) oxide catalyst in the contact process. For 10 points, name this compound with chemical formula H2SO4, a strong acid found in car batteries.	sulfuric acid [or H2SO4 before mentioned; do not accept “sulfurous acid”]	Nitric_acid	False
286	One author from this country wrote a novel in which an entomologist is forced to live with a widow at the bottom of a sandpit. Another author from this country wrote a novel in which Bird copes with his son's mental illness. A third author from this country wrote about an expert in ballet who travels to a spa retreat. Those novelists from this nation wrote the novels The Woman in the Dunes, A Personal Matter, and Snow Country. For 10 points, name this home country of Kobo Abe, Kenzaburo Oe, and Yasunari Kawabata.	Japan [or Nippon-koku; or Nihon-koku]	Yasunari_Kawabata	False
287	The engraver Raffaello Morghen is best-known for his reproduction of this painting, which is situated across from a piece by Giovanni Donato. Figures on its left side include a bald man raising his hands and a man holding a knife and whispering into another figure's ear. This work, located in the Santa Maria delle Grazie, was painted for its artist's patron Ludovico Sforza. The central figure sits with outstretched palms in this work, in which John is depicted with effeminate features. For 10 points, name this fresco depicting Christ's final meal, painted by Leonardo da Vinci.	The Last Supper [or Il Cenacolo; or L'Ultima cena]	Leonardo_da_Vinci	False
288	"When this deity assumes his role as the god of wind, he is depicted with a conical hat and a mask with two protruding tubes. In one story, he immolated himself after being tricked into sleeping with a priestess by a rival deity. In order to begin the fifth world cycle, he traveled into the underworld with his dog-headed psychopomp brother. This nemesis of the jaguar-faced god of the ""smoking mirror"" is typically depicted as a warrior or a feathered serpent. For 10 points, name this rival of Tezcatlipoca, an Aztec sky god who Montezuma allegedly confused with Hernan Cortes."	Quetzalcoatl [prompt on Ehécatl]	Tezcatlipoca	False
289	"In one opera by this composer, Zerbinetta sings ""The high and mighty princess"" aria and the title character sings a duet with Bacchus. Another opera by this composer sees Octavian dress up as the chambermaid Mariandel to trick Baron Ochs. This composer of Ariadne auf Naxos often collaborated with the librettist Hugo von Hofmannstahl. He wrote an opera in which the head of Jokanaan is served on a platter after the ""Dance of the Seven Veils."" For 10 points, name this German composer of the operas Salome and Der Rosenkavalier."	Richard Georg Strauss	Salome	False
290	"This conflict included the signing of the Act of Accord. Enmity between the Percy and Neville families was high during this conflict. The Earl of Warwick led forces to victory at the First Battle of St. Albans and later got the epithet ""Kingmaker"" for successfully crowning Edward IV during this war, which included battles at Northampton and Tewkesbury. During this conflict, Henry VII defeated Richard III at the Battle of Bosworth Field. For 10 points, name this series of British wars that pitted the houses of Lancaster and York against each other."	Wars of the Roses	Wars_of_the_Roses	True
291	"This body's differential rotation combines with magneto-hydro-dynamic effects to form a magnetic field known as the Parker spiral. Thermal columns in the convection zone cause the granulation of this body. The discovery of flavor oscillation resolved this body's namesake ""neutrino problem."" ""Bow shock"" is the phenomenon in which the flow of plasma from this body is interrupted by a planetary magnetic field. It creates its namesake ""wind"" as its corona expands into space. For 10 points, name this star that is one astronomical unit away from Earth."	the sun [or sol]	Magnetic_field	False
292	"In one this author's novels, a schoolteacher and a poet named ""Cool Max"" form a political party to run against the corrupt Minister of Culture, Chief Nanga. He penned a novel in which Clara has an abortion, which Obi pays off by taking a bribe. That novel is a sequel to his work that details the ritual sacrifice of Ikemefuna and the conversion of Nwoye. In that novel by this author of No Longer at Ease, the rising influence of white missionaries in Umuofia leads Okonkwo to hang himself. For 10 points, name this Nigerian author who wrote Things Fall Apart."	Chinua Achebe [or Albert Chinualumogu Achebe]	Things_Fall_Apart	False
293	The relationship between this quantity and wavelength is defined by the Sellmeier equation, which models dispersion.  Taking the arctangent of the ratio of this quantity for two materials gives Brewster's angle. For two materials, the ratio of the sines of the angles of incidence at an interface equals the ratio of this quantity for both materials, a result that derives from Fermat's principle of least time. For 10 points, name this physical property that can be determined from Snell's law, defined as the ratio of the speed of light in a given medium to that in a vacuum.	index of refraction [or refractive index; prompt on n; prompt on IR; do not prompt on partial answers]	Snell's_law	False
294	"Karl Popper claimed that this work undermines the ""Open Society"" in a work that details the ""Spell"" of its author. Its first section is comprised of Thrasymachus's critiques. Glaucon uses the story of the ring of Gyges in this work to illustrate the fact that man is inherently unjust. It contains the story of a group of shackled prisoners who see shadows against a wall. This work explains the Theory of the Forms with the Allegory of the Cave. For 10 points, name this Platonic dialogue, which also contains Socrates' description of an ideal state ruled by philosopher-kings."	the Republic [or Politeia]	Republic_(Plato)	False
295	This nation's emperors traced their lineage through Solomon and the Queen of Sheba, and included Theodore II, who was deposed by Robert Napier. Mengistu founded a junta in this country known as the Derg. The Christian empire of Axum was based in this modern-day nation, which won the Battle of Adowa over Italy during the rule of its emperor Menelik II. This nation was first colonized in 1936 by Benito Mussolini's Italy. One of its emperors is revered by the Rastafarian faith. For 10 points, name this East African nation that was once ruled by Haile Selassie.	Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia [or Ityop'iya Federalawi Demokrasiyawi Ripeblik]	Haile_Selassie	False
296	"During this war, the Edict of Restitution was issued by Emperor Ferdinand II. Its early phases saw fighting between Count Mansfeld and Count Bucquoy. One participant in this war was advised by Axel Oxenstierna, won the Battle of Breitenfield, and was killed at the Battle of Lutzen. This conflict began with the Bohemian Revolt, and saw ""interventions"" by Denmark, Sweden, and France. Generals in this war included Tilly, Wallenstein, and King Gustavus Adolphus of Sweden. For 10 points, name this lengthy conflict that ended with the Peace of Westphalia."	Thirty Years' War	Gustavus_Adolphus	False
297	"This poet described a ""long-legged bird"" flying over ""two Chinamen, behind them a third"" carved in stone. In one of his poems, he imagines himself taking the form of ""hammered gold and gold enameling"" to sing for an emperor at the end of a poem that claims ""that is no country for old men."" This author described a creature ""slouching toward Bethlehem to be born"" in a poem that states: ""Things fall apart, the centre cannot hold."" He wrote the poems ""Lapis Lazuli"" and ""Sailing to Byzantium."" For 10 points, name this Irish poet who also wrote ""The Second Coming."""	William Butler Yeats	The_Second_Coming_(poem)	False
298	One of this artist's works shows a blind Byzantine general holding out his hands for charity. This artist of Belisarius Begging for Alms depicted a reclining woman in white in his Madame Recamier. In another work, he showed a bearded man pointing to the sky and grabbing for a cup of hemlock. Three brothers extend their arms towards a man holding three swords in another painting by this artist, who also depicted a French Revolutionary lying dead in a bathtub. For 10 points, name this Neoclassical French painter of The Oath of the Horatii and The Death of Marat.	Jacques-Louis David	Oath_of_the_Horatii	False
299	"This man's first cabinet post was as President of the Board of Trade, where he instituted his country's first minimum wage. Late in his life, he concentrated on writing a History of the English-Speaking Peoples. He was disgraced when he counseled his friend Edward VIII during the Abdication Crisis. This attendant of the Yalta Conference gave the ""finest hour"" speech. He replaced the signer of the Munich Pact, Neville Chamberlain, in his highest post, in which capacity he oversaw the Battle of Britain. For 10 points, name this Prime Minister of the UK during World War II."	Sir Winston Leonard Spencer Churchill	Neville_Chamberlain	False
300	One author from this country wrote about Professor Pimko in a work that sees the transformation of a thirty-year-old man into a schoolboy. In addition to that author of Ferdydurke, another writer from this country wrote a trilogy that includes With Fire and Sword. This country's national epic is Pan Tedeusz. A Nobel-winning author from this country told the story of a Christian woman named Lygia, who has an affair with the Patrician Marcus Vinicius, in his novel Quo Vadis. For 10 points, name this country, home to Witold Gombrowicz and Henryk Sienkiewicz.	Republic of Poland [or Rzeczpospolita Polska]	Marcus_Aurelius	False
301	"This musician's later career saw the production of the album In a Silent Way, which marks a shift towards fusion and electronic music. The nonet he formed in 1948 with Gerry Mulligan and Gil Evans produced the singles ""Boplicity"" and ""Budo."" The music of Joaquín Rodrigo and Manuel de Falla served as a basis for his record Sketches of Spain.  This musician of the album Birth of the Cool included the songs ""Freddie Freeloader"" and ""So What"" on another album. For 10 points, name this jazz trumpeter, known for his album Kind of Blue."	Miles Dewey Davis	Kind_of_Blue	False
302	"One ruler of this empire had a retinue of ministers known as his ""Nine Jewels,"" including the wise tutor Bairam Khan.  Another ruler of this empire fought constant battles with Shivaji, the founder of the rival Marantha Confederation.  Nadir Shah stole this empire's Peacock Throne. It was founded after the defeat of the Lodis at the First Battle of Panipat. One ruler of this empire built the Taj Mahal, and its rulers included Shah Jahan, Akbar, and Babur. For 10 points, name this Muslim empire that ruled India from the sixteenth to the nineteenth century."	Mughal Empire [or Shahan-e Mogul]	Babur	False
303	In this author's most recent novel, the Haitian slave girl Zarité leaves New Orleans. This author wrote about a girl who makes imitation grenades from Universal Matter for her friend Huberto Naranjo before marrying Rolf Carlé. In another novel, this writer told of the Las Tres Marías hacienda, which houses Esteban and the green-haired prophetess Clara. This author of The Island Beneath the Sea and Eva Luna wrote about the Trueba family in another novel. For 10 points, name this author who wrote The House of the Spirits, a female Chilean-American novelist.	Isabel Allende Llona	The_House_of_the_Spirits	False
304	During this battle, a boulder field along Plum Run called the Devil's Den was stormed by John Bell Hood's Georgia troops. General Heth decided to attack the Union soldiers from Herr's Ridge and through McPherson's Ridge on its first day. The commander of the victorious side of this battle had recently replaced Joseph Hooker. George Gordon Meade won this battle, which saw intense fighting at Culp's Hill and Little Round Top. For 10 points, name this loss for Robert E. Lee, a Civil War battle in Pennsylvania that included Pickett's Charge.	Battle of Gettysburg	Battle_of_Gettysburg	True
305	This novel's protagonist dreams of a mare tied to a wagon being beaten to death by a mob of drunkards. In this novel, Luzhin offers to marry Dunya after she leaves her position as a governess. Another of its characters, Marmeladov, is the drunken father of the prostitute Sonya, who moves to Siberia in its epilogue after falling in love with its protagonist. Its protagonist confesses to Porfiry Petrovich after murdering Lizaveta and her half-sister, the pawnbroker Alyona Ivanovna. For 10 points, name this work about Raskolnikov, a novel by Fyodor Dostoyevsky.	Crime and Punishment [or Prestuplenie i nakazanie]	Crime_and_Punishment	True
306	"This man's death triggered the Lamian War. This man, who built a causeway to end a siege at Tyre, defeated King Porus at the Battle of the Hydaspes. He was succeeded by a group of rival successors known as the Diadochi. One city he founded was the site of a World Wonder known as the Pharos. He commanded the left wing of his father's army while defeating the Sacred Band of Thebes at Chaeronea. Aristotle tutored this son of Philip II who defeated Darius III of Persia at the Battles of Gaugamela and Issus. For 10 points, name this ""Great"" Macedonian conqueror."	Alexander the Great [or Alexander III of Macedon; or Megas Alexandros]	Alexander_the_Great	True
307	One of this artist's last works depicts the Blessed Ludovica Albertoni clutching her breast. This designer of Urban VIII's tomb also sculpted an ornate canopy that stands below the central dome of St. Peter's Basilica. This artist created sculptures of four gods to represent the Plate, Nile, Danube, and Ganges for a structure centered on a large obelisk, his Fountain of the Four Rivers. The Cornaro Chapel houses his statue of an angel holding a spear above a woman who contorts her face in pleasure. For 10 points, name this Italian sculptor of The Ecstasy of St. Teresa.	Gian Lorenzo Bernini [or Giovanni Lorenzo Bernini]	Ganges	False
308	"This politician gained territory to the north by pushing through the Gastein Convention. He warned against a great war sparked by ""some damned foolish thing in the Balkans."" His minister, Adalbert Falk, passed the May Laws to fight the Catholic Church during a social campaign that this man initiated. This politician sparked a war by altering the Ems Dispatch. This giver of the ""Blood and Iron"" speech initiated the kulturkampf and spurred on the FrancoPrussian War. For 10 points, name this practitioner of realpolitik, an ""Iron Chancellor"" of Germany."	Otto Eduard Leopold von Bismarck	Iron	False
309	This composer transcribed a forlane from another composer's Concerts Royaux, inspiring his six-part memorial of World War I soldiers. Pianist Ricardo Viñes debuted many of this man's pieces, including a Spanish dance that was inspired by his teacher, Gabriel Fauré. This composer arranged the most-performed version of Mussorgsky's Pictures at an Exhibition and wrote The Tomb of Couperin and the Pavane for a Dead Princess. A constant ostinato rhythm in the snare drums characterizes another of his pieces. For 10 points, name this French composer of Boléro.	Joseph-Maurice Ravel	Modest_Mussorgsky	False
310	In this novel, Al fixes Ivy and Sairy Wilson's car after the death of the protagonist's grandfather. A strike on a peach orchard turns violent and leads to the death of Jim Casy in this novel, which includes a scene in which a man is breastfed during a flood by the mother of a stillborn baby, Rose of Sharon. The protagonist is released from prison at the beginning of this work, and goes on the run at the end after leading his family from Oklahoma to California. For 10 points, name this Great Depression-era work about the Joad family, a novel by John Steinbeck.	The Grapes of Wrath	The_Grapes_of_Wrath	True
311	One story in this country's mythology sees a figure plow a field of snakes and catch a giant fish before he is allowed to marry his bride. Eggshells broken on Ilmatar's knee gave rise to the universe in this nation's mythology, which includes a northland called Pohjola and an underworld called Tuonela. In a myth from this country, the smith Ilmarinen creates the sampo for Louhi. Heroes in this country's mythos include Väinämöinen and Lemminkäinen. Its national epic was compiled by Elias Lonnrot. For 10 points, name this nation whose national epic is the Kalevala.	Republic of Finland [or Finnish mythology; or Suomi; prompt on Kalevala before mentioned]	Kalevala	True
312	This molecule has uniform bond lengths of 140 picometers. A strong Lewis acid catalyst can be used to alkylate or acylate this molecule. Alternating carbon-carbon single and double bonds characterize this molecule's two resonance structures, which represent its six delocalized pi electrons. Huckel's rule describes this molecule's structure, which was first discovered by August Kekulé. Adding an -OH group to this molecule produces phenol, while adding a CH3 group to it makes toluene. For 10 points, name this aromatic compound with formula C6H6.	benzene [prompt on C6H6 before read]	Aromaticity	False
313	"One character that this author created is writing a text on the ""Domestic Industries in the Brabant in the Middle Ages."" Another character created by this author is Dr. Rank, who has tuberculosis of the spine. He created a woman who tells Løvborg to ""die beautifully"" and is blackmailed by Judge Brack. In another work, this playwright wrote about the banker Krogstad, whose return of incriminating documents prompts Nora Helmer to walk out on her husband Torvald. For 10 points, name this author of Hedda Gabler and A Doll's House, a Norwegian playwright."	Henrik Ibsen	A_Doll's_House	False
314	"An early depiction of one of these creatures with the epithet ""golden"" stood on a rhomboid limestone column atop a wooden base. A work that glorified Marie Bonaparte's sexual obsession is similar to depictions of these creatures, which were inspired by the works in the Maiasta series. One sculpture of these animals was taxed as a propeller blade when it was brought through U.S. customs. The sculptures of these creatures were stripped of detail to depict the essence of flight. For 10 points, name these animals that Constantine Brancusi sculpted ""in space."""	birds [or Bird in Space; or Birds in Space; or general equivalents like avians but not specific birds]	Constantine_the_Great	False
315	This man distinguished between physical, social, and logical-mathematical knowledge in his theory of genetic epistemology. This psychologist performed an experiment involving tall and short beakers, which demonstrated the concept of conservation. He postulated that adaptation occurs through accommodation and assimilation of knowledge into internal schemas. He theorized periods characterized by magical thinking and object permanence. For 10 points, name this Swiss psychologist who posited the sensorimotor and preoperational stages of development in children.	Jean Piaget	Knowledge	False
316	If you multiply two of these values and find the Euler totient function of the product, you can create public and private keys symbolized d and e. Whether a given number is one of these values is tested using an algorithm named for Miller and Rabin. One naïve test for these values, named for Fermat, gives false positives called Carmichael numbers. The difficulty of factoring composite numbers composed of two of these numbers is the basis of RSA encryption. For 10 points, name these non-composite numbers with only two divisors, one and themselves.	prime numbers [or primes]	Pierre_de_Fermat	False
317	One rite in this faith consists of removing the kushti girdle string while washing one's hands. Modern-day adherents of this faith initiate seven-year-olds in the Navjote ceremony, during which the children receive white wool shirts.  Indians known as Parsees practice this religion, whose funeral rites dictate building towers of silence to house corpses. The Devas and Amesha Spentas are evil and good spirits in this religion, which centers on a conflict between Angra Mainyu and Ahura Mazda. For 10 points, name this dualistic Iranian religion whose holy text is the Avesta.	Zoroastrianism [or Zarathurstraism; or Mazdaism before read; prompt on Parsee before read]	Zoroastrianism	True
318	This man's only extant wooden sculpture is a crucifix found at the Santo Spirito, at whose hospital this artist studied corpses. He sculpted the Dying Slave and Rebellious Slave for a room that also contains a horned depiction of Moses.  Speculation that Solari was the actual sculptor inspired this man to carve his name on a sash in one of his works. This sculptor who worked on Julius II's tomb also made a seventeen-foot tall depiction of a naked man with his left hand near his chin. For 10 points, name this Italian artist who sculpted several Pietàs and a marble David.	Michelangelo di Lodovico Buonarroti Simoni [accept either underlined name]	Moses	False
319	"This poet describes a tuna as a ""bullet / from the ocean depths"" in one of his Elemental Odes, which praise common things. This author wrote an anguished poem in which he laments ""in you everything sank."" In another poem, he claims ""tonight I can write the saddest lines."" This student of Gabriela Mistral wrote another work whose fifteen sections include ""The Conquistadors"" and ""The Heights of Macchu Picchu."" For 10 points, name this Marxist who wrote Canto General and Twenty Love Poems and a Song of Despair, a Nobel-winning Chilean poet."	Pablo Neruda [or Juan Ricardo Reyes Basoalto]	Gabriela_Mistral	False
320	"This ruler forced the Knights Hospitalier to move from Rhodes to Malta during a naval campaign. He had his son Mustafa strangled at the behest of his wife Roxelana, whom he broke the rules of succession to marry. He elevated his servant Ibrahim to the position of Grand Vizier. This supporter of John Zápolya besieged Belgrade and defeated Hungarian King Louis II at the battle of Mohács. This ruler's inroads into Europe were halted at the 1529 siege of Vienna. For 10 points, name this son of Selim the Grim, a ""Magnificent"" Ottoman sultan."	Suleiman the Magnificent [or Suleiman I; or Suleiman the Lawgiver; or Suleiman Kanuni]	Suleiman_the_Magnificent	True
321	This composer opened the fourth movement of his second minor-key symphony with a Mannheim Rocket. This composer of the Great G-minor Symphony wrote a well-loved C-minor Piano Concerto No. 24 and an A-major Clarinet Concerto. His wife Constanze lobbied Franz Süssmayer to complete this composer's Requiem. He composed the Prague and Jupiter symphonies, which are found in the Koechel catalog of his works. For 10 points, name this composer who wrote Eine Kleine Nachtmusik and variations on the melody that became Twinkle, Twinkle, Little Star.	Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart	Violin_concerto	False
322	In one episode from this work, a friar shows the people coals instead of a feather from Gabriel. One man in this work beats his wife into submission after Solomon tells him to go to the Bridge of Geese. Dineo narrates the final part of this work, in which the Marquis of Saluzzo marries the patient Griselda. A group of characters, including Pamfilo and Filistrato, initiate this work's narrative by gathering at the basilica of Santa Maria Novella and fleeing the Black Death in Florence. For 10 points, name this collection of one hundred stories related by Boccaccio.	The Decameron: Prencipe Galeotto	Giovanni_Boccaccio	False
323	This property's emergence can be modeled by a second-order phase transition with an order parameter proportional to the attractive potential between electrons. This property, which has characteristic lengths called the penetration depth and coherence length, can be understood as the condensation of Cooper pairs. Some materials with this property are perfect diamagnets that expel internal magnetic fields via the Meissner effect. BCS theory models Type I materials with this property. For 10 points, name this property in which materials have zero electrical resistance.	superconductivity [or superconductors]	Superconductivity	True
324	"This ruler faced a scandal when Amy Robsart, the wife of Robert Dudley, died by falling down some stairs. This ruler was dubbed a ""servant of crime"" and excommunicated in the papal bull Regnans in Excelsis, a response to the passage of the Second Act of Supremacy. Anthony Babington's plan to assassinate this ruler was uncovered by spymaster Francis Walsingham. This ruler ordered the execution of Mary, Queen of Scots and sent Francis Drake to defeat the Spanish Armada. For 10 points, name this Tudor monarch, the ""Virgin Queen"" of England."	Queen Elizabeth I [prompt on Queen Elizabeth]	Spanish_Armada	False
325	"This artist showed a man leading a horse-drawn wagon in his Going West, which was in his early, Native-Americaninspired style. Eight vertical lines streak across a colorful background in a painting by this artist that was purchased for an exorbitant sum by the Australian government. This artist of Blue Poles and Number 5 was inspired by The Tempest to paint Full Fathom Five. A purple hue hangs over black lines in his Lavender Mist, which is exemplary of his action painting technique. For 10 points, name this abstract expressionist known as ""the Dripper."""	Paul Jackson Pollock	The_Night_Watch	False
326	This author wrote a novel set at Otsego Lake in which the title character rescues the hapless scalpers Hurry Harry and Tom Hutter. One of this author's title characters is the disguised John Paul Jones. Duncan Heyward is dressed as a clown in another work by this author, in which Cora Munro is stabbed in the chest. Magua kills Uncas, the son of Chingachgook, before plummeting to his death after being shot by Natty Bumppo in this author's The Last of the Mohicans. For 10 points, name this early American novelist who wrote the Leatherstocking Tales.	James Fenimore Cooper	The_Last_of_the_Mohicans	False
327	"British composer Harrison Birtwistle composed an opera titled for the mask of this character, whose ""wonderful constancy of love"" titles a Telemann opera. He sings the passionate ""Rosa del ciel"" aria and converses with the messenger Sylvia in another opera. ""The Dance of the Blessed Spirits"" appears in an opera about this figure by Christoph Gluck. His attempt to save his lover erupts into can-can music in a Jacques Offenbach opera, which is titled for him ""in the Underworld."" For 10 points, name this character who appears in those operas with his lover, Eurydice."	Orpheus [or Orfeo]	Christoph_Willibald_Gluck	False
328	"This thinker claimed that the unhappiest man of all is he who has ""his ideal...outside of himself."" He wrote about Johannes's seduction of Cordelia in one work, which outlines a way to spice up life called ""crop rotation."" In that volume, this man included the letters of Judge Vilhelm, which are presented as the discovery of Victor Eremita. This thinker contrasts the Knight of Infinite Resignation with the Knight of Faith in a work that discusses Abraham's readiness to sacrifice Isaac. For 10 points, name this Dane who wrote Fear and Trembling and Either/Or."	Søren Aabye Kierkegaard	Fear_and_Trembling	False
329	"In one poem by this author, a ""pilgrim shadow"" tells a knight that he must ride ""over the mountains of the moon, down the valley of the shadow."" This author wrote a short story in which Prince Prospero holds a masquerade ball in seven brightly colored rooms. In another story by this author of the poem ""Eldorado,"" he told of a tarn-side abode with an ominous crack, in which Madeline emerges from her crypt, to Roderick's horror. For 10 points, name this author of ""The Fall of the House of Usher"" who created a figure that repeats ""nevermore"" in his poem ""The Raven."""	Edgar Allan Poe	The_Raven	False
330	During this ruler's reign, the Gordon riots broke out to protest the first Act for Catholic Relief. Britain ended its transatlantic slave trade during the reign of this king, who signed the one-year Peace of Amiens with France. His prime ministers included Lord North and both William Pitt the Elder and Younger. During his last decade of rule, his son served as Regent because this ruler went insane, possibly due to porphyria. In 1765, he levied the Stamp Act on the American colonies. For 10 points, name this British monarch who ruled during the American Revolution.	George III Hanover [or George William Frederick; prompt on George]	George_III	True
331	"An E-minor composition by this man uses minor second intervals to produce dissonant ""wrong note"" sounds. He composed a G-flat major work in which the right hand plays arpeggios consisting almost entirely of sharps and flats.  This composer of the Black Key Etude wrote a work that was compared to a dog chasing its tail. He honored his home nation by writing a solo piano work that venerates the November Uprising. For 10 points, name this composer of the Revolutionary Etude and the ""Minute Waltz,"" a prolific writer of nocturnes and polonaises from Poland."	Frédéric Francois Chopin [or Fryderyk Franciszek Chopin]	Waltz	False
332	"This quantity is multiplied by the speed of light in the denominator of the Compton wavelength. The difference of this quantity's unbound and measured quantities is its ""defect."" The implied asymptotic increase of this property with speed makes faster-than-light travel impossible. In general relativity, the presence of this property causes spacetime to curve. The Higgs boson might impart this property to matter. Einstein equated it with energy and the speed of light squared. For 10 points, name this quantity which, when multiplied by acceleration, gives force."	mass [{prompt} on m; {accept} rest mass {until “faster}-{than}-light”]	Speed_of_light	False
333	"One ruler of this country had a secret police force whose name meant ""The Ear of Corn,"" the Mazorkas. In addition to that caudillo named Juan Manuel de Rosas, another ruler of this nation was supported by the Descamisados. This country was the site of the ""Dirty War,"" which was instigated by Jorge Rafael Videla. This nation, along with Brazil and Uruguay, defeated Paraguay in the War of the Triple Alliance. It was once ruled by Juan Peron, whose wife was known as Evita. For 10 points, name this South American country whose leaders reside in Buenos Aires."	Argentina [or Argentine Republic; or Republica Argentina]	Buenos_Aires	False
334	"This figure's birth and life are celebrated in a spring holiday called Vesakha. A hermit named Asita prophesied that this figure would be great. This figure undertook the ""Great Departure"" with his charioteer Channa. The idea that dukkha can be avoided by detachment from the senses is found in this man's Fire Sermon. He changed his name after attaining enlightenment while sitting under the Bodhi tree. For 10 points, name this man, born Siddhartha Gautama, whose ""four noble truths"" and ""eightfold path"" are key steps towards nirvana in his namesake religion."	the Supreme Buddha [or Siddhartha Gautama (either underlined part) before said]	Gautama_Buddha	False
335	"Book III of this work discusses how the law of primogeniture slowed the agricultural progress of Dark Ages Europe, a time period in which city and rural folk were similarly privileged. The author of this work was a student of Francis Hutcheson who was inspired by Bernard de Mandeville's The Fable of the Bees. It uses the example of a pin factory to illustrate its concept of the division of labor. This work equates self-interest with the collective interest in its image of the ""invisible hand."" For 10 points, name this work that supports laissez-faire economics, by Adam Smith."	The {Wealth of Nations} [or An Enquiry into the Nature and Causes of the Wealth of Nations]	Adam_Smith	False
336	This architect worked with Vlado Milunic to design a building with a blue-glass bowling-pin-shaped tower next to tube-shaped tower on a pylon. Seattle's Monorail stops under the blue overhang of one of this architect's buildings, which is often compared to a smashed electric guitar. He designed the Pritzker Music Pavilion, a bandshell in Chicago's Millennium Park. He designed a museum along the Nervion River to look like a ship at port. For 10 points, name this architect of the Guggenheim Bilbao, whose buildings are often completely covered in sheet metal.	Frank Owen Gehry [or Frank Owen Goldberg]	Seattle	False
337	This author's major comedic plays were all translated by American poet Richard Wilbur. One of this author's plays sees a potential marriage between Angelique and Thomas Diaforious planned by Angelique's father Argan, the role that this author was playing when he collapsed and died on stage. In another work, this playwright described how Damis (dah-MEE) is banished from Orgon's house on the whim of a scheming religious hypocrite. For 10 points, name this author of The Imaginary Invalid and Tartuffe, a French comic playwright of the mid 1600s.	Molière [or Jean-Baptiste Poquelin]	Tartuffe	False
338	"These systems are isochronous and always have one resonant frequency when modeled using the small-angle approximation. The ""double"" variant of these systems exhibits chaotic motion. The precession of a large one of these systems due to the Coriolis force proves that the Earth rotates. A basic way to model these systems considers them as simple harmonic oscillators. For 10 points, name these physical systems consisting of oscillating hanging weights, an example of which is named for Léon Foucault."	pendulums	Michel_Foucault	False
339	"One symphonic work by this composer was written for Johann Maelzel's ""Panharmonicon,"" a mechanical contraption that could play military band instruments. Richard Wagner called this composer's frenetic seventh symphony the ""apotheosis of the dance."" One of his symphonies begins with a short-short-short-long motif that was dubbed ""fate knocking on the door."" His sixth and third symphonies are the Pastoral and Eroica. For 10 points, name this German composer, whose Choral Ninth Symphony contains a fourth-movement setting of ""Ode to Joy."""	Ludwig van Beethoven	Symphony_No._9_(Beethoven)	False
340	One character in this novel is a Legion of Honor winner who writes a series of editorials that put a blind man into an asylum. The title character of this novel steals arsenic from Homais. A failed operation on Hippolyte's clubfoot occurs in this novel, in which the title character owes money to the money-lender Lheureux. This novel's title character attempts to borrow money from Rodolphe Boulanger and claims to be taking piano lessons when she visits Léon Dupuis. For 10 points, name this novel about Charles and his unfaithful wife Emma, by Gustave Flaubert.	Madame Bovary	Madame_Bovary	True
341	Before this battle, Callimachus casted a deciding vote in favor of attack. This battle occurred after the fall of Eretria, an ally of the winning army, whose forces included a thousand troops from Plataea. This battle saw the winning side's flanks push through to encircle the stronger troops in the center, led by the victorious commander, Miltiades. In legend, its victors sent a courier named Pheidippides to report the victory in Athens. For 10 points, name this battle that ended the invasion of Greece by Darius I of Persia, and gave its name to a modern-day twenty-six-mile race.	Battle of Marathon	Battle_of_Marathon	True
342	The title character in one of this man's novels composes incidental music for Love's Labours Lost and the oratorio Apocalypse cum figures. Another novel by this author contains frequent debates between the humanist Settembrini and the radical Naptha. In another novel, this author wrote about the downfall of a Lubeck-based merchant family. He wrote a novel in which Joachim Ziemmsen is visited at a sanatorium by Hans Castorp. For 10 points, name this German author of Buddenbrooks, Doctor Faustus, and The Magic Mountain.	Thomas Mann [or Paul Thomas Mann]	The_Magic_Mountain	False
343	"Two brothers from this country, Gabo and Pevsner, wrote the ""Realistic Manifesto."" One artist from this country created a series of geometric paintings called ""Prouns,"" in addition to a work in which a red wedge stabs a white circle. One artist from this country founded the Suprematism movement, which led to such works as Black Square and White on White. This country was the home of the author of Concerning the Spiritual in Art, the cofounder of the Blue Rider group. For 10 points, name this country, home to Kasimir Malevich and Wassily Kandinsky."	Russian Federation [or Soviet Union; or USSR]	Wassily_Kandinsky	False
344	"One poem by this author states that ""Eden sank to grief"" because a leaf subsided to a leaf. In another poem, he wrote of a creature whose claim that ""highway dust is over all"" causes the speaker to wonder ""what to make of a diminished thing."" In addition to ""Nothing Gold Can Stay"" and ""The Oven Bird,"" this poet composed the lines ""but I have promises to keep, and miles to go before I sleep"" in his ""Stopping by Woods on a Snowy Evening."" For 10 points, name this American poet who discussed a choice made in a ""yellow wood"" in his ""The Road Not Taken."""	Robert Lee Frost	The_Road_Not_Taken	False
345	An alcohol with formula C13H28O uniquely cannot undergo these interactions because of its large tert-butyl groups.  Hoogsteen base pairing employs these interactions, which are strongest when they are symmetric. Typically, nitrogen, fluorine, and oxygen facilitate these interactions, which are stronger than van der Waals interactions. These interactions can form a dimer of H2O. They cause the hexagonal lattice of ice crystals and the high boiling point of water. For 10 points, name these bonds, which are named after an element with atomic number one.	hydrogen bonds [accept word forms like hydrogen bonding; or H-bonds; prompt on hydrogen or H]	Nitrogen	False
346	"The western theatre of this conflict saw Wesley Miller become a military governor after the opposing fleet was wiped out by Commodore George Dewey. ""Fightin' Joe"" Wheeler led an attempted charge on Santiago during this ""splendid little war."" William Randolph Hearst's ""yellow journalism"" inflamed support for this conflict after the explosion of the Maine. Theodore Roosevelt led the Rough Riders at San Juan Hill during this war. For 10 points, name this 1890s war that led to the American annexation of the Philippines, Puerto Rico, and Cuba."	Spanish-American War	Spanish–American_War	False
347	"In a short story by this author, the narrator realizes that he is ""driven and derided by vanity"" in his quest to buy a gift for Mangan's sister. He wrote Father Arnall's fire-and-brimstone sermon into his novel that begins with a nursery story about Baby Tuckoo. This author created a character who climaxes during a bottle rocket explosion in a novel in which Blazes Boylan has an affair with the protagonist's wife, Molly. For 10 points, name this author of ""Araby,"" who created Stephen Dedalus and Leopold Bloom in his novels A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man and Ulysses."	James Augustine Aloysius Joyce	Ulysses_(novel)	False
348	"This philosopher's concept of ""multitude"" is central to Empire by Michael Hardt and Antonio Negri, who wrote about this man in The Savage Anomaly. This thinker defined God as an ""infinite substance."" In one work, he claimed that, as a political constitution of Israel, the Torah was no longer valid. He argued for secular government in his Tractatus Theologico-Politicus. He wrote about ""God or nature"" in a work presented in a ""geometric order"" that reflects this thinker's pantheism. For 10 points, name this Jewish-Dutch philosopher who wrote the Ethics."	Baruch Spinoza [or Benedict(us) de Spinoza; or Bento de Espinosa]	Tractatus_Logico-Philosophicus	False
349	This man defeated the Golden Horde at the Terek River and the Kondurcha River, where he clashed with his rival, Tokhtamysh. He died during a campaign against the Ming dynasty in China. He ordered the massacre of the inhabitants of Isfahan after they revolted against his rule. His son Shah Rukh helped him to defeat and capture Bayezid I at the battle of Ankara. This brutal conqueror allegedly made pyramids out of his enemy's skulls. For 10 points, name this great-great grandfather of Babur, a crippled Central Asian warlord who ruled from Samarkand.	Tamerlane [or Timur the Lame; or Timur e-Leng; or Tamburlaine]	Babur	False
350	One author from this country inserted a woman named Susan Barton into a castaway story. Another author from this country told of Jacobus finding a dead body, which disturbs the industrialist Mehring. One author from this country wrote the novel Foe in addition to a novel in which David Lurie seduces one of his students. Another novelist from this nation created Maureen and Bamford Smales, who flee their home during the Soweto riots. For 10 points, name this country, which is home to the authors of Disgrace and July's People, J.M. Coetzee and Nadine Gordimer.	Republic of South Africa	Nadine_Gordimer	False
351	"This man notably published a speech that he gave in Parliament on the resumption of cash payments, in which he attacked the position of the titular Mr. West. This man left the important paper ""The Invariable Standard of Value"" unfinished. This man is associated with an ""93 per cent"" theory which makes possible his Labor Theory of Value. This man stated that it doesn't matter whether government finances spending with debt or tax increase, known as his and Barro's equivalency. His ""Essay on the High Price of Corn"" showcased his opposition to the Corn Laws. For ten points, identify this economist who wrote Principles of Political Economy and Taxation, who is also well known for an Iron Law of Wages and describing comparative advantage."	David Ricardo	Tax	False
352	"A variation of this process in prokaryotes includes the enzymes lactonohyrolase and NADP+ oxoreductase and is named for Entner and Duodoroff. The rapid acceleration of this process by M2-PK in cancer cells is known as the Warburg effect, while one product of this pathway is moved into a downstream process via the malate-aspartate shuttle. One enzyme is this pathway is regulated by both a liver promoter and a neuroendocrine promoter that control the transcription of two different isoforms, while another one is inhibited allosterically by alanine and ATP, and is responsible for transforming phosphenolpyruate to pyruvate, which is the final molecule of this pathway. Divided into an ""investment"" and ""payoff"" phase, this process creates a net total of 2ATP. FTP, name this pathway that contains pyruvate kinase, glucokinase, and phosphofructokinase-1, and is responsible for splitting a glucose molecule."	glycolysis or the Embden-Meyerhoff pathway	Glycolysis	True
353	One belligerent in this war set up the Agranat Commission to investigate the failure of its intelligence services prior to the war.  In this war, troops commanded by Moshe Dayan, David Elazar, and Israel Tal faced off against armies led by Saad El Shazly, Hosni Mubarak, and Abu Zikry, among others.  The first two days of this war saw 8,000 Egyptian troops overwhelm fortifications in the Negev Desert by crossing the Suez Canal in rubber assault rafts.  After losing territory in this war to both Syria and Egypt, the Israeli Defense Forces recaptured much of it, making gains in the Golan Heights and capturing a small piece of territory to the west of the Suez Canal.  FTP, name this 1973 war launched on an important Jewish holiday.	Yom Kippur War or October War or Ramadan War	Egypt	False
354	"The Gin synthesis of Nominine relies on an intermolecular version of this reaction, while Ishihara's triamine catalysts allow acroleins to undergo this reaction. Rajaram and Sigman's catalysts facilitate the oxo-variation of this reaction, which uses carbonyl compounds to create pyrans, and this reaction was one of the first understood through the use of Fukui's theory. Seelig's ribozymes catalyze it in vivo, and a more familiar variation uses 1,1-diarylethylene and is named for Wagner and Juaregg. The aza variation of this reaction is used to synthesize pyridines, while this reaction prefers a transition state in which the groups on one reactant are pointed inwards, called the ""endo"" state. FTP, name this [4+2] cycloaddition reaction that creates a cyclohexene derivative from a diene and a dienophile."	Diels-Alder reaction	Catalysis	False
355	"Jonathan Bennett's ""A Study of"" this work argues that when we say something has a property, we are implying that the universe has that property at a certain location. In the preface to part three of this work, the author claims that we can attribute nothing to a defect in nature because nature is the same everywhere, while in another section he notes that we call the eternal being ""God or Nature."" Its third section discusses the ""Origin and Nature of the Emotions,"" while the second claims that ""extension is an attribute of God"" in a discussion of the ""Origin and Nature of the Mind."" This work begins by defining such terms as ""self-caused"" and ""substance"" in the ""Of God"" section, while he argues that our key weakness is our inability to rein in our emotions in the fourth section, ""Of Human Bondage."" FTP, name this book ""demonstrated in geometrical order,"" a posthumously published work of Baruch Spinoza."	Ethics	Ethics_(Spinoza)	True
356	"An arena designed by this man contains a 300-foot backbone and has been nicknamed the ""Yale Whale,"" and a skyscraper in New York has a jagged top and is nicknamed ""Black Rock."" Another one of his designs features five buildings surrounding a reflecting pool in Warren, Michigan, and he used an eighth of a sphere to design a university building in Massachusetts. In addition to the General Motors Technical Center and Kresge Auditorium at MIT, he designed the TWA terminal at JFK and the main terminal of Dulles International Airport, though it is for a landmark on the Jefferson National Expansion Memorial in Missouri that he is most famous. For 10 points, identify this architect who created the Gateway Arch, a Finn."	Eero Saarinen	Eero_Saarinen	True
357	Mother Peep is a facist demagogue in a play that this author set in the Radiant City, which also includes the typist Dany. Another play by this author claims that philology leads to calamity, which is said by the maid in response to the Professor and the Student. In addition to The Killer and The Lesson, he rewrote a Shakespearean tragedy into MacBett. He wrote a play in which Marguerite and Marie are the wives of the title character, entitled Exit the King . An elderly couple jumps out of a window in one play, while multiple Bobby Watsons appear in a play by this author, which also shows a fireman looking for a fire. For 10 points, identify this most famous for The Chairs, The Bald Soprano, and a play where everyone except Ber?ger turns into the title animal, The Rhinoceros.	Eugene Ionesco	Rhinoceros	False
358	"Sibelius's Seventh Symphony was the basis for this composer's Symphony in One Movement, while selections from The Unchangeableness of God can be found in his Prayers of Kierkegaard. The poem ""Prometheus Bound"" was the basis for the tone poem Music for a Scene from Shelley written by this composer, who used a flurry of two-note cells leading to a trill to open his Overture to The School for Scandal. This composer of two Essays for Orchestra wrote about Erika and the title character waiting for Anatol in his opera Vanessa, but he may be best remembered for a work which is based on a passage from Vergil's Georgics. FTP, name this American composer of Adagio for Strings."	Samuel Barber	Jean_Sibelius	False
359	"One of his works begins with the section ""An Untimely Pregnancy"" that uses metaphor of a chessboard and describes the conflict between Coyote and the title character. Besides Story of Lynx discussing the Nez Pierce, another of his works compares the Kwakiutl and Salish perspectives on the titular objects, The Way of the Masks. One of his best-known works describes ""alliance theory"" and introduces structuralism against Radcliffe-Brown's functionalism, while another contains the volumes From Honey to Ashes, The Origin of Table Manners, and The Raw and the Cooked. For ten points, anthropologist, who wrote aElementary Structure of Kinship and Mythologiques."	Claude Levi-Strauss	Coyote	False
360	"A man shipwrecked in the title magic land appears in this man's poem ""Eralaban,"" which appears in a collection whose title refers to the two sides of a coin. He hired Samuel Beckett to produce the English translation of an anthology of poetry from his home country, and wrote the essay ""The Pears of the Elm"" for the introduction to that anthology. The lines, ""I travel your length like a river / I travel your body like a forest."" appear in a long poem by this man whose structure is based on a calendar. His poem ""Obsidian Butterfly"" is a lament by the goddess Itzpap?otl, and appears in his aforementioned collection Eagle or Sun?. FTP, name this author of Sun Stone and The Monkey Grammarian who wrote that ""Man is the only being who knows he is alone"" in his essay The Labyrinth of Solitude, a Mexican Nobel Prize winner."	Octavio Paz	Samuel_Beckett	False
361	"His self-portraits include one ""with Burning Cigarette,"" one ""Beneath Woman's Mask,"" one ""Between Clock and Bed,"" two ""During the Eye Disease,"" and one ""with Skeleton Arm."" His namesake museum in the T?yen district of his hometown, designed by Fougner and Myklebust, houses a work in which he painted a a naked woman with her head tilted back and a red halo and another in which the title character's red hair is draped over the head of a bent-over man. In addition to Madonna and Vampire, he included Death in the Sickroom in his painting cycle the Frieze of Life. FTP name this man who painted a swirling red sky and two indistinct figures on a bridge approaching a figure with a distorted face in The Scream."	Edvard Munch	The_Scream	False
362	"Plectosteles, present in some club mosses, have interconnected plates of this tissue, and whether a plant is ectophloic or amphiphloic is determined by whether this tissue is surrounded on both sides or on one. Its two principal forms may be differentiated by the size of one of their component cells, called tracheids, and another highly lignified type, vessel elements, are produced by the fusiform initials of angiosperms. While only the proto- and meta- forms exist in monocots, in dicots and gymnosperms, another form grows inward from the vascular cambium, called the ""secondary"" this. For 10 points, identify this plant tissue responsible for water and mineral transport, complemented by the phloem."	xylem	Phloem	False
363	In 1987, the monthly adjustment of prices and wages according to changes in expected inflation drew controversy during the first months of implementation of this nation's Pacto, which has gone through fifteen renegotiations. Rudiger Dornbusch recommended that this nation devalue its currency by 30 percent during a time when twenty billion dollars in currency swaps were provided by an Exchange Stabilization Fund; this occurred after Bill Clinton failed to pass a Stabilization Act through Congress to aid this nation, which also received aid through Brady bonds. This currency crisis was also known as the December mistake, and during it cetes were exchanged for dollar-denominated tesobonos. That disaster under Ernesto Zedillo's leadership, also known as the Tequila crisis, forced the signing of NAFTA by, FTP, which country whose currency is the peso?	Mexico	Inflation	False
364	Sapiro, Zhang, and Raithel used a one-dimensional optical lattice to demonstrate the transition of this substance from a superfluid to a Mott-insulator. Ramsey fringes appear in these substances when one applies a series of pulses from the excitation field. When confined to one dimension, the equivalent of this substance is called a Tonks-Girardeau gas, while Ketterle was able to create it in dilute gases. Modelled by the Gross-Pitaevskii equation, this substance is typically created by cooling rubidium atoms, after which they collapse into the same quantum state as discovered by Cornell and Weimann. FTP, name this state of matter in which bosons are brought near absolute zero, named after two scientists.	Bose-Einstein Condensate	Bose–Einstein_condensate	False
365	This god was sometimes required to appear in Duat, where he achieved his most important task. Some myths attribute the birth of Khepri to this god, who was believed to intervene on both sides of mortal battle so that neither side could attain true victory. He sometimes attained the aspect of A'an, which required him to don a baboon's head, and this god is responsible for mediating the conflict between Heru-Bektet and Set, as well as between Ra and Apep. The masculine counterpart to Seshat, this god notably bet with Khonsu and won part of the moon's light, and during the process of judging for the afterlife, this god weighed the hearts of mortals against the feather of truth, or Ma'at. For ten points, identify this Egyptian god, who invented writing and had the head of an ibis.	Thoth [accept Djehuty]	Ra	False
366	"In one of this author's plays, the young man, who has been doing calisthenics near the title object, reveals his identity as the Angel of Death to the grandmother. In another play, the Grandmother wins twenty-five thousand dollars using the pseudonym of ""Uncle Henry,"" while one character initiates a tickle fight, pulls a knife, and impales himself on it in another play. This author is best known for a play in which one character enters with snapdragons and announces ""flores para los muertos"" in the beginning of the third act, which concludes with the game ""Bringing Up Baby,"" witnessed by Nick and Honey and played by George and Martha. For 10 points, identify this author of The Sandbox, The American Dream, The Zoo Story, and Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?."	Edward Albee	Who's_Afraid_of_Virginia_Woolf?	False
367	"This man proposed the mechanism of the epigenetic principle, and his work partially springs from his observations of the Yurok tribe. Before collecting his speeches in the compilation Insight and Responsibility, this thinker collaborated with Kivnick on an examination of Vitality in Old Age. One of this man's books describes the process through which the concept of satyagraha emerges, while another book examined ""The meaning of meaning it"" and described its subject's ""fit in the choir."" The author of Ghandi's Truth, this person set forth contrasts like integrity and despair, autonomy and shame, and industry versus inferiority. For 10 points, identify this author of Young Man Luther and Childhood and Society, the psychologist who developed the identity crisis and eight psychosocial stages of development."	Erik Homburger Erikson	Martin_Luther	False
368	"In one episode in this novel, the members of a poetry club go kite-flying while preparations are made for the funeral of another character, who had committed suicide by swallowing a piece of gold, Second Sister Yu. The first chapter sees a man who lives next to the Gourd Temple, Shi Yin, chat with Yu Cun and send him off to the capital before leaving himself. The beginning of this novel explains how the story is actually engraved on the one stone not used by Nu Wa-shi to repair the heavens. The protagonist loves Lin Daiyu but is destined to marry Xue Baochai; ""precious jade"" is the meaning of the name of the protagonist, Pao-yu. For 10 points, identify this novel, which chronicles the Rongguo House and the Ningguo House of the Jia family, written by Cao Xueqin."	The Dream of the Red Chamber [or Red Chamber Dream; or A Dream of Red Mansions; or Hong Lou Meng]	Dream_of_the_Red_Chamber	True
369	"Cellos are doubled by bassoons before the tutti at ""juxta crucem lacrimosa"" in the opening movement of this composer's setting of Stabat Mater. Six settings of ""Mi lagnero tacendo"" that he called Musique anodine and his Petite Messe Solonelle are included in his Sins of Old Age, while another of his works concerns the daughter of the King of Lesbos, Polidoro. This composer of Zelmire also substituted a philosopher named Alidoro and Don Magnifico for the traditional fairy godmother and wicked stepmother in La Cenerenterola. In his most famous work, the title character, introduced with the aria ""Largo al factotum,"" preoccupies Lindoro so that his compatriot can find time with Rosina, who ultimately marries Count Almaviva. For 10 points, identify this composer of William Tell and The Barber of Seville."	Gioachino Antonio Rossini	The_Barber_of_Seville	False
370	"""Calculus racked"" and ""Tussis attacked"" the subject of this author's poem ""A Grammarian's Funeral."" The subject of one of his poems refers to ""a great text in Galatians"" which ""entails / Twenty-nine distinct damnations"" as he condemns the indulgences of Brother Lawrence, while another of his poems begins by exclaiming ""Grow old along with me! / The best is yet to be."" This author of ""Soliloquy of the Spanish Cloister"" and ""Rabbi Ben Ezra"" and the collection Dramatis Personae wrote of someone who ""found a thing to do"" in strangling the title character with her own hair. His best-known poem reflects on a man with a ""nine-hundred-years-old name"" who is proud of a statue of ""Neptune... taming a sea-horse"" by Claus of Innsbruck. FTP, name this poet of ""Porphyria's Lover"" and ""My Last Duchess."""	Robert Browning	My_Last_Duchess	False
371	"One of these poems notes that ""the free creature / has its progress always behind it, / and God before it,"" and concludes by observing that ""We arrange it. It collapses. / We arrange it again, and collapse ourselves."" In another, constellations like ""the Rider, the Staff, and... Fruit-Garland"" are enumerated by a personified Lament, and that one ends by supposing ""if the endless dead woke a symbol in us."" One of these invokes the lover Gaspara Stampa, and a better-known example invokes the ""days of Tobias"" and declares in its first line that ""Every Angel is terror."" Beginning by invoking ""if I cried out, who would hear me, among the angelic orders,"" for 10 points, identify this series of ten poems named for a castle by Rainer Maria Rilke."	Duino Elegies [or Duineser Elegien]	Rainer_Maria_Rilke	False
372	"He overlapped a pair of soprano saxophones repeating an interval in different rhythms for the score for Beckett's play Play, and one of his compositions, in which a stepmother kills her son when he reaches into a chest for an apple, is based on the story by the Brothers Grimm, ""The Juniper Tree."" He provided the ""Rome Section"" to The Civil Wars, which is still incomplete, and his One Plus One required hands rapping a table fitted with a microphone. The opening scene of one piece features an aria becoming a duet and then a trio against the background of a chaconne and is entitled ""The Kuru Field of Justice."" The final scene of his most famous piece features frantically chanted numbers, which may imply some sort of nuclear holocaust. For 10 points, identify this minimalist composer of Satyagraha, Akhenaten, and Einstein on the Beach."	Philip Glass	Samuel_Beckett	False
373	In one of this man's paintings, a man falls into a ditch, tripping the man behind him, who will cause the four behind him to fall in turn since they are all holding onto a long stick, being unable to see. In addition to The Parable of the Blind, he depicted an army at center marching ominously into a snowy village as the cavalry rides around spearing infants in The Massacre of the Innocents. Peasants dance gaily while a bird perches on a wooden frame in his The Magpie on the Gallows, while he drew a man with a knife twice the size of his body cutting into a bloated corpse in Large Fish Eat Small Fish, which is itself included in a larger painting depicting the proverbs of his native land. Well known for several depictions of the Tower of Babel, for 10 points, identify this Flemish artist of Hunters in the Snow and Landscape with the Fall of Icarus.	Pieter {Bruegel} the {Elder}	Fish	False
374	"This type of deity is represented in Aboriginal myth by Knowee, a mother in search of her child, while the Ashanti deity of this is Lisa, also known as Nyankopan. A god of this type was originally known as the ""Scabby One"" and was named Nanauatzin, though in later that role was assumed by Tonatiuh. In the Kalevala, this role is filled by Pasivas, while in another mythos this role is filled by the daughter of Mundilfari. The Celtic god of this type threw a stone ball into the evil eye of his grandfather Balor, while in Chinese myth, it is symbolized by a raven in a circle, and the divine archer, Shen Yi, uses it as his palace and shoots down nine false ones. The Norse tradition holds that it will be devoured by Skol at Ragnarok, and Amenhotep IV's worship this as the one true god led him to change his name to Akhenaten. For 10 points, name this celestial body associated with Ra and Helios."	sun (gods)	Kalevala	False
375	"Chandara takes the blame for her brother-in-law's killing of his wife in this author's story ""Punishment."" In addition to Formless Jewel, this author wrote a work in which the title character, who wears the title plant, challenges the king of the Fortress of Kubera, while Nikhil's wife Bimala is the middle of a love triangle in his novel The Home and the World. This author of the play Red Oleanders and the collection Wild Geese also penned the line ""what had gone: the golden boat took all"" in another collection, while Yeats wrote the preface to his most famous work, which contains 103 poems. FTP, identify this Bengali author of the collection Gitanjali, or Song Offerings."	Rabindranath Tagore	Gitanjali	False
376	"In one work by this author, Harker initially believes Hugh Morgan was killed by a mountain lion, but later comes to attribute it to supernatural powers, while another work sees Palmer disappear while investigating the title locale. In addition to ""The Damned Thing"" and ""At Old Man Eckert's,"" this author of ""Killed at Resaca"" also wrote a story about a chess-playing automaton in ""Moxon's Master"" and one about Carter Druse, who leaves his family to fight in the Civil War and ends up having to shoot his father in ""The Horseman in the Sky."" The inspiration of Carlos Fuentes's novel The Old Gringo, this is, FTP, which author who wrote about Peyton Farquhar in ""An Occurrence at Owl-Creek Bridge"" and also wrote the Devil's Dictionary?"	Ambrose Bierce	Carlos_Fuentes	False
377	"The title character of his only opera sings the aria ""Die letzte Hoffnung Schwindet"" and is named Genoveva, while his first symphony was an unfinished work named after his hometown Zwickau. His first published work was dedicated to a fictional countess and is based on themes to the sequence ""A B-flat E G G."" One of this man's works includes the sections ""Dreaming,"" ""The Poet Speaks,"" and ""Of Foreign Lands and people,"" and is called Kinderszenen, while another of his works was inspired by a work of E. T. A. Hoffman and was dedicated to Frederick Chopin. In addition to Kreisleriana, he composed a suite of piano pieces titled Papillons, while one of his orchestral works depicts the Archbishop of Cologne within its five movements. For 10 points, name this German composer, husband of Clara, who created the Spring Symphony, and the Rhenish Symphony."	Robert Schumann	Symphony_No._9_(Dvořák)	False
378	Actions perpetrated by one side of this conflict prompted the formation of the Fawcett Comission. General Penn Simons was killed in a successful attack against the enemy's elevated position in the opening Battle of Glencoe. The victorious side suffered initial defeats at Stormberg and Colenso in a period known as the Black Week, and hundreds of Imperial Troops were also lost on a day known as Bloody Sunday. After winning at Paardeberg, Field Marshal Roberts lifted the sieges of Ladysmith and Mafeking, while the latter half of this conflict saw Lord Kitchener employ scorched-earth tactics against the namesake group. Concluding with the Treaty of Vereiniging, identify, for 10 points, this war lasting from 1899 to 1902, a conflict between British forces and a certain Afrikaans-speaking people in South Africa.	Second Boer War [accept equivalents]	Second_Boer_War	True
379	A compound containing this functional group vicinal to an amino group can be synthesized from an alkene in one reaction named for Sharpless. A reaction which uses triphenylphosphine and DEAD to convert these compounds to azides or esters is named for Mitsunobu, while serine and threonie contain this functional group on their beta carbons. One of these reacts with a carboxylic acid to give an ester in the Fischer synthesis, and these functional groups can be produced by the reduction of aldehydes and ketones into their primary and tertiary types respectively. For 10 points, identify this functional groups exemplified by methanol and propanol.	alcohols [or OH; or hydroxyl][to be edited by JV]	Ester	False
380	Among this god's possessions is the jewel Kaustubha, and his status is indicated by a curl of hair on his chest known as the srivatsa. One of this god's epithets comes from the time that he destroyed the demon Madhu, while an early story about this deity recounts how he carried off the body of the boar identified with the god Prajapati, which guarded the treasure of the asuras. One legend about this god recounts how he traversed the entire universe in three steps, and this story forms the basis for the later tales of Vamana. Depictions of this deity often show him reclining on the coils of the serpents Shesha, and his lesser known consort is the personification of the Eart, Bhumidevi. A dark-skinned god who rides the bird Garuda and bears such objects as the chakra, conch, and lotus, for ten points, identify this Hindu god, the consort of Lakshmi who with Shiva and Brahma makes up the Trimurti.	Vishnu	Brahma	False
381	"The protagonist of this novel first meets an young expatriate artist at an apartment on the Boulevard Malesherbes, and the protagonist delivers a climactic speech in the garden of the sculptor Gloriani to that artist, usually referred to as ""little Bilham."" He runs into the owner of the apartment in a box at the Th?tre Fran?is, which he attends with the lawyer Mr. Waymarsh. At the end of the novel, the protagonist decides that he cannot marry Miss Gostrey and must return to Woollett alone, as he has failed to convince the son of his betrothed to marry Mamie Pocock and return to America. For 10 points, identify this novel featuring Madame de Vionnet, Chadwick Newsome, and Lambert Strether, written by Henry James."	The Ambassadors	The_Ambassadors	True
382	"While the protagonist of this opera is dining, a series of popular tunes is played, including music from Vicente Martin y Soler's Una cosa rara and Giuseppi Sarti's Fra i due litiganti, as well as an excerpt from the composer's previous opera. The title character plays the mandolin while singing the canzonetta ""Deh vieni alla finestra,"" sung to the woman with whom he sings the duet ""La ci darem la mano,"" Zerlina. At the end, the protagonist is visited by the statue of the slain Commendatore and dragged down to hell, and early in this opera, the title character's servant distracts Donna Elvira by singing the so-called Catalogue Aria. For 10 points, identify this opera about a womanizing nobleman, which was written by Wolfgana Amadeus Mozart."	Don Giovanni	Don_Giovanni	True
383	"The title location of one poem in this work is described as a ""banal Eldorado,"" and it describes the sight of a hanged man being torn apart by birds. Some poems in this work describe ""The Death of the Poor"" and ""The Death of Artists,"" and In another poem, one of four with the same title, the speaker claims that in his body the green waters of Lethe flow instead of blood, and he begins by describing himself as the king of a rainy country. While there are only five poems in the section Wine, the former poem is ""A Voyage to Cythera,"" and in one poem, the title objects frame a the decapitated body of a woman, entitled ""A Martyr."" Beginning with the section Spleen and Ideal, for 10 points, identify this collection of poetry by Charles Baudelaire."	Les fleurs du mal [or Flowers of Evil]	Charles_Baudelaire	False
384	"In the Mormon conception of the afterlife, the Terrestrial Heaven is described as having a glory equivalent to this object, and in Psalm 72 David remarks that abundant peace shall exist in Solomon's lands so long as this object ""endureth.""  More famously, as described in the 54th Sura of the Qu'ran, Muhammad supposedly split this object into two parts, although disbelievers explained this action away as ""transient magic."" In Chinese thought, this object is associated with a rabbit who creates herbal medicines from scratch.According to Joel, and repeated in the Revelation of John the Divine, at the Day of Judgment this object will be turned to blood. For 10 points, name this astronomical body, which, along with the sun and the stars, was halted in its tracks by Joshua."	the moon	Book_of_Mormon	False
385	"In one work, this man uses an analogy of a crate of oranges to explain that the scientific person would argue that if a sample is bad, the whole population is likely bad. He uses the color of his table to critique both Descartes' cogito ergo sum argument and Berkeley's idealism in the first three chapters of another work, whose other chapters include ""How A Priori Knowledge is Possible"" and ""The Limits of Philosophical Knowledge."" This author of the introduction to Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus introduces the proposition C(x) such that C(everything) means that ""C(x) is always true"" and C(nothing) means that ""'C(x) is false' is always true"" in a work arguing against theories of Frege and Meinong. For 10 points, name this author of Why I Am Not a Christian,"" The Problems of Philosophy, and ""On Denoting,"" also noted for the ""Man's Peril"" speech and being a co-author of Principia Mathematica."	Bertrand Arthur William Russell	Tractatus_Logico-Philosophicus	False
386	"This politician used money confiscated from a deposed king to establish his ""Reptile Fund,"" which he used to establish a secret news agency to procure political information on socialists and influence public opinion. The Austro-Prussian War began when this man accused Austria of violating the Gastein Treaty, while he, along with Julius Andrassy and Prince Gorchakov, orchestrated the Three Emperors' League. The Falk, or May, Laws were passed during his conflict with the Roman Catholic Church, while he instigated the Franco-Prussian War with his publication of the Ems dispatch. FTP, name this Iron Chancellor responsible for Kulturkampf, a Prussian and German statesman of the 19th century."	Otto von Bismarck	Franco-Prussian_War	False
387	This work is dedicated to George Lyttelton, who was partially the inspiration for one of its major characters. The lone childhood friend of this work's title character is the gameskeeper Black George, who later with the help of Mrs. Honour aids the character in exchanging love letters with a woman. The most prominent female character in this novel is subject to an attempted rape by Lord Fellamar, and Arabella Hunt proposes marriage to the title character of this novel by letter. The protagonist of this work helps a woman claiming to be the widow of Captain Waters, and also has an affair with Molly Seagram. Mr. Fitzpatrick is the traveling companion of the title character of this work, and that title character and his rival are tutored by Roger Thwackum. That rival, Bilfil, vies for the title character's love interest Sophia Western. For ten points, name this novel whose title character is raised by Squire Allworthy, a work by Henry Fielding.	The History of Tom Jones, a Foundling	The_History_of_Tom_Jones,_a_Foundling	True
388	"An A minor composition of this type by this man was discovered in 1983 and nicknamed ""Odense."" Gustave Nottebohm noted that Beethoven's Fifth Symphony bears a theme similar to the opening of the final movement the second to last one, which is sometimes called his ""Great"" G-Minor, while an eight movement serenade was reworked into yet another one. A more well-known composition one begins with an adagio introduction, while another one, reminiscent of a work by Michael Haydn, ends the molto allegro with a five-voice fugato, and its name was coined by Johann Peter Salomon. The ""Haffner"" is one of, FTP, which type of composition by which man, including his 38th, nicknamed ""Prague"", and 41st, nicknamed ""Jupiter""?"	Symphonies of Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart [Both underlined parts required]	Symphony_No._5_(Beethoven)	False
389	This figure is frequently associated with the constellation Ursa Major, whose stars are said to be his footprints, while he shared many similarities with the storm god Hurakan.  As the patron god of slaves he punished cruel masters, and he was said to preside over the commoner schools known as telpochcalli. In one story he abducts the flower goddess Xochiquetzal from her husband Tlaloc.  In another myth he sacrificed his right foot to kill the primordial crocodile Cipactli, after which he was granted lordship over the First Sun. His most famous possession was a magic smoking mirror, with which he tricked his benevolent archrival into immolating himself. Synonymous with the Jaguar God Tepeyollotli, For ten points, name this Aztec god of the night and the destructive counterpart of Quetzalcoatl.	"Tezcatlipoca [prompt on ""Jaguar God"" or ""Tepeyollotli"" before mentioned]"	Tlaloc	False
390	HSP90 aids in the delivery of substances to the translocase of outer membrane complex found on these entities, which are also the site of the combination of protoporphyrin IX with iron to form heme. Kearns-Sayre syndrome and Leber's hereditary optic neuropathy are examples of diseases associated with the transfer of their genetic material, a process which in over 99 percent of mammals involves maternal inheritance as there are roughly 1000 times more of these in oocytes than in sperm. Along with chloroplasts, these are the subjects of endosymbiotic theory, and the foldings of its inner membrane are known as cristae. FTP, identify this double-membrane cell organelle that generates the majority of the ATP in a cell.	mitochondria	Cell_membrane	False
391	One of his sons was seduced by Chimaera and blinded by Nomia for his infidelity, and besides fathering Daphnis, he laid freshly stripped hides on a road in order to rape Apemosyne. When caught in an immoral act by Battos, he turned him into a stone, and he turned Heirax into a hawk to prevent himself from getting caught further.  With the daughter of Myrmidon, Eumolpeia, he fathered the herald of the Argonauts, Aethalides. Also the father of Autolycus, his birth was marked by an altercation between Silenus and Cyllene over where he got the cow gut for the musical instrument he used to lull his mother Maia to sleep, while he also stole the cattle of Apollo. This god also had a child with Aphrodite which was both male and female, and he owns both the cadeucus and the winged sandals. For 10 points, name this Greek god, the herald of Zeus.	Hermes	Apollo	False
392	One analog of this phenomenon is described by the Righi-Leduc effect. Kane and Mele developed a model for one variety of it and the Corbino effect is a special case of it. In plasmas, its namesake parameter is the ratio of electron gyrofrequency to the particle collision frequency, and a version of this effect was discovered in a gallium arsenide heterostructure by Tsui and Stormer and explained by Laughlin. The resistance associated with this effect t can be measured by the Van der Pauw method and its quantum analogue, which breaks down into integer and ractional varieties, was discovered by von Klitzing. Resulting from an asymmetric distribution of charge density, which in turn creates an electric field, for 10 points, name this effect, in which a potential voltage is produced in a conductor in the presence of a magnetic field.	Hall effect (accept thermal Hall effect until 'Kane')	Hall_effect	True
393	"One work of his, the colossal Saint John the Evangelist currently resides in the Duomo of Florence, but from its creation until 1588, it occupied a place in the fa?de of the Baptistery, a building which this artist's mentor, Lorenzo Ghiberti, had designed. Following his work on Saint John, he worked on a statue of St. Mark for the Orsanmichele church, where he would also create a statue of Saint George several years later. While working on the sculpture Habbakuk, or Zuccone, he is alleged to have repeatedly muttered ""Speak, Damn you, Speak"" at the marble he was working with. For ten points, identify this 15th-century artist and sculptor of the Equestrian Monument of Gattamelata and the Bronze David."	Donatello	Donatello	True
394	He came to the aid of Amymone when a satyr assaulted her, and for a wedding present, he gave Xanthus and Balius to Peleus.  His offspring include the king who sent Jason on the quest for the Golden Fleece and the first priest of the Eleusinian mysteries, who was taught by this deity's sister Benthesikyme.  Caeneus asked to be turned into a man after being raped by this god, and it was this god who induced Pasiphae's lust for a bull he sent to Minos.  Along with Apollo, this god was welched on by the king of Troy, for whom he built some exceedingly tall walls. Fathering the second generation of Cyclopes, including Polyphemus, he caused the death of Hippolytus as fulfillment of one of three curses he gave to his son Theseus.  For, identify this Greek god of earthquakes and horses, who may be better known as the brother of Hades and Zeus who lived in and ruled the sea.	Poseidon	Theseus	False
395	"He satirized League of Nations politicians in the polka of his suite for ballet, The Age of Gold. His Second Symphony is a single 20-minute movement which features an actual factory whistle during a quiet spot, while Volkov called his Ninth Symphony a work ""full of sarcasm and bitterness,"" disguised as an homage to Haydn. Other orchestral works includes a suite from the incidental music to Mayakovsky's The Bed Bug, as well as a work subtitled ""A Soviet Artist's Reply to Just Criticism"". He crafted Katerina Izmaylova as a heroic victim in an opera, while his seventh symphony was a response to Bartok's Concerto for Orchestra and written during a German invasion. FTP, name this Russian composer of Lady Macbeth of the Mtensk District and the ""Leningrad"" symphony."	Dmitri Shostakovich	Symphony_No._9_(Beethoven)	False
396	"This man wrote an essay in which he questioned why dogs don't form rational ideas, entitled ""Brute and Human Intellect,"" and in a later work, he called for a scientific determination of the limits of human ability in ""The Energies of Man.""  He proposed that a genuine option must be live, momentous, and forced in a volume that included the essays, ""Reflex Action and Theism,"" ""Is Life Worth Living?,"" and the title essay, ""The Will to Believe."" This man also claimed that one must not consider an object's physical derivation when making a value judgement. For 10 points, name this author of The Varieties of Religious Experience, Principles of Psychology and a work titled after this man's school, Pragmatism."	William James	William_James	True
397	"About this author's translation of the Iliad, the classical scholar Richard Bentley said, ""It is a pretty poem, but you must not call it Homer."" This collaborator on the play Three Hours after Marriage with John Gay also wrote a work, whose addendum extols the virtues of the Peace of Utrecht, a long poem called Windsor Forest, and the line ""Who breaks a butterfly upon a wheel"" can be found in his ""Epistle to Dr. Arbuthnot."" John Dennis attacked one of his works which refers to Homer, Virgil, and Horace, but this author may be better known for a work which makes Lewis Theobald the prince of dullness, as well as another about an incident that occurred between Lord Petre and Arabella Fermor. FTP, name this English author of ""An Essay on Criticism"", The Dunciad, and ""The Rape of the Lock""."	Alexander Pope	Alexander_Pope	True
398	"In one scene of this novel, the protagonist drunkenly dreams of a black scorpion and a leg in a box, among other things. After a woman takes him shopping for a gramophone, the narrator is able to learn the foxtrot despite his stiff dancing. Another scene in this novel shows the narrator in a whirling hall of mirrors, which occurs after he skips a magic show advertised ""FOR MADMEN ONLY"" in order to buy a book. Although he has a three-week long affair with the beauty Maria, the protagonist is actually in love with Hermine. That love culminates in the protagonist's inviting Hermine and Pablo into the Magic Theater, after which the protagonist murders her. For ten points, name this novel centering on Harry Haller written by Herman Hesse."	Steppenwolf	Steppenwolf_(novel)	True
399	This goddess tricked the Aloadai giants into killing each other, preventing them from scaling Mount Olympus. One version of the story of Orion's death gives this goddess as the cause, after her brother tricked her into using Orion's head as a target. She and her brother worked together in response to Niobe's claim that her fourteen children made her superior to their mother, killing her children to avenge Leto. This goddess was angry when her nymph Callisto was seduced by Zeus, and directly after her birth, she assisted her mother in birthing her brother.  Another story concerning this goddess revolves around her punishing Actaeon for spying on her while bathing by turning him into a stag, after which he was killed by hounds. This goddess notably ruled the Hyperboreans and the Amazons. For 10 points, identify this sister of Apollo, the virgin Greek goddess of the hunt.	Artemis	Orion_(constellation)	False
400	This phenomenon is the cause of Plateau-Rayleigh instability and the Marangoni effect. The Bond number indicates the relative strength in a system of gravity and forces due to this, while the Weber number relates it to inertia. The Young-Laplace equation states that capillary pressure is directly proportional to the wetting angle and this quantity, and it can be computed for an arbitrary pure liquid using the Eotvos rule. Measured in units of ergs per centimeter squared, or newtons per meter, it is causes the formation of 'tears of wine' and the spherical shape of water droplets. For 10 points, identify this phenomenon, the storage of energy at the surface of a liquid.	surface tension	Surface_tension	True
401	One of these molecules containing two geminal acceptor groups is the product of the Knoevenagel reaction. Ethers can be formed by alkoxy-mercuration between an alcohol and one of these, or by reacting a peroxy-acid with one of these. In the process of hydrogenation, some of its bonds are broken by reacting them with protons, and Lindlar's catalyst is often used to yield the cis-variety from an alkyne. Markovnikov's rules state that when hydrogen halides are added to them, the acid hydrogen attatches to the carbon with the greatest bonded hydrogens and the halide attaches to carbon with the fewest bonded hydrogens. Ethylene is the simplest member of, for 10 points, what group of unsaturated organic compounds that have at least one carbon-carbon double bond?	alkene or olefine	Carbon	False
402	"The prelude of his fourth symphony closes with the chorus singing the hymn ""Watchman,"" while his unfinished, most abstract symphony is known as his Universe Symphony. In one of his ""Two Contemplations,"" Central Park in the Dark is paired with a work in which the dissonant dialogue between trumpet and woodwinds represents the search for a transcendental answer. This composer of Variations on ""America"" also wrote his second piano sonata to commemorate such people as Hawthorne, the Alcotts, and Emerson, while ""Putnam's Camp"" and ""The Housatonic at Stockbridge"" are among the title locales of his most famous orchestral work. The composer of The Unanswered Question, for ten points, name this American composer of Concord Sonata and Three Places in New England."	Charles Edward Ives	Piano_sonata	False
403	An imposter named Gaumata took the identity of this ruler's son Bardiya to overthrow this ruler's rightful successor. That successor fought at the Battle of Pelusium and defeated Psametik III, pharaoh of the 26th Dynasty. Xenophon wrote a fictionalized biography of this ruler, whose head was supposedly placed in a jar of blood by the vengeful Queen Tomyris of the Massagatae. He founded his capital at Pasargade, although the city that he conquered from his grandfather Astyages, Ecbatana, also served that function. After having defeated the Neo-Babylonians under Nabonidus, he made the Jews happy by ending the Babylonian Captivity. He is also known for defeating the Croesus, King of Lydia, and establishing his empire by overthrowing the Medians. Father of Cambyses II, for 10 points, identify this founder of the Achaemenid dynasty of the Persian empire.	Cyrus II or the Great [accept just Cyrus after the end of the question; prompt otherwise; accept Kurus]	Cyrus_the_Great	False
404	The Supersemar order led to the massacre of thousands of Communist in this nation, which was directed by the future leader of the Golkar Party. That occurred after the 30 September movement, which indirectly caused the rise of the man who was later succeeded by Jusuf Habibie. Although neither the Linggarjati Agreement nor the Renville Agreement could bring peace in this nation, it ultimately secured its independence at the Hague Round-Table Conference. The five principles of Pancasila and the abbreviation NASAKOM were concepts related to the leader of the non-aligned movement from this nation, and the Bandung Conference occurred here. For 10 points, name this Asian country whose leaders included Megawati, Suharto, and Sukarno, the most populous Muslim nation.	Indonesia	ARCADIA	False
405	This figure is associated with the mystery cult at Samothrace that worships the Cabeiri, who are sometimes known as his sons. Some of his other offspring include the inventor of the flute and a wrestler who defeats everyone he faces and proceeds to kill them. Those two, Ardalus and Cercyon, both came from his relationship with the Thracian nymph Cabiro. One of his more famous offspring became the king of Athens after expelling Amphictyon. That king was Ericthonius, and came from this figure's failed attempt to rape Athena. According to Homer, he had a wife named Aglaea, one of the Graces, but they did not have any children. This might be because of his incredibly grotesque features that also caused Hera to throw him from Mount Olympus. For 10 points, name this Olympian who created Achilles's armor and the Aegis breastplate, the god of fire and metallurgy famous for being lame.	Hephaestus	Athena	False
406	"He described the Book of Mormon as ""chloroform in print"", and started a hoax with ""The Petrified Man"", one of the early articles he wrote for Nevada's Territorial Enterprise. He joined William Dean Howells as a spokesman for the Anti-Imperialist League, and parodied the life of painter Jean-Francois Millet in his burlesque play Is He Dead?. Non-fiction works such as ""The Private History of a Campaign That Failed,"" ""How to Tell a Story"" and A Tramp Abroad describe his wartime experience and travels; but it was his fiction that brought him to fame, such as The Prince and the Pauper and The Tragedy of Pudd'nhead Wilson. For 10 points, name this author of The Adventures of Tom Sawyer, a pseudonym for Samuel Clemens."	Mark Twain [accept Samuel Clemens before that name is mentioned]	Book_of_Mormon	False
407	"In one of this author's stories, a wounded Mexican named Cayetano recovers along with the writer Mr. Frazer and a devout nun in a hospital. This author of ""The Gambler, the Nun, and the Radio"" also wrote a work about a boy confused by the difference between Celsius and Farenheit thinks he is going to die and in another, two waiters wait for an old man to leave a caf? Wilson asks Margot, ""Why didn't you poison him"" in another story after she shoots the title character, and this author also wrote about the writer, Harry, who dies of an infected wound after dreaming of an airplane trip to the title mountain. For 10 points name this author of ""A Day's Wait"", ""A Clean Well Lighted Place"", ""The Short Happy Life of Francis Macomber"", and ""The Snows of Kilimanjaro""."	Ernest Miller Hemingway	Mount_Kilimanjaro	False
408	In the Cottrell equation, the current generated in a chronoamperometry experiment is proportional to the square root of a coefficient of this type and a Loschmidt tube can be used to study this phenomenon. The ability of plasmas to escape confinement in a magnetic field faster than kinetic estimates would predict is accounted for by the Bohm type of this process and in L?y flights its constant becomes infinite. Stochastic variables can be applied to molecular states to produce the Ehrenfest model of this process and random walks involving non-Brownian motion produces the anomalous version of this process. For 10 points, what is this process that is governed by a relationship between flow rate and concentration difference known as Fick's law and can describe gas molecules moving down a concentration gradient.	diffusion	Brownian_motion	False
409	"One of his poems discusses a ""beautiful mild woman"" and states that the title character's fall ""needs much laboring."" Another poem by this man states that the title characters ""were all on show"" and ends with the image of ""the foul rag and bone shop of the heart."" In addition to ""Adam's Curse"" and ""The Circus Animals' Desertion"", he asked ""how can we tell the dancer from the dance?"" in the last line of his poem ""Among School Children,"" and wrote of a people to whom ""no likely end"" could bring loss, ""or leave them happier than before."" In that same poem, the title character believes ""that he shall meet his fate / somewhere among the clouds above,"" while another poem compares an old man with a tattered robe upon a stick and opens by describing the title place as ""no country for old men."" For 10 points, name this author of ""An Irish Airman Foresees His Death"", and ""Sailing to Byzantium."""	William Butler Yeats	The_Hollow_Men	False
410	One work by this man attempted to disprove the universality of the Oedipus complex, and another work focused on Race relations in Africa and included a discussion of native diets and land issues. In addition to The Dynamics of Culture Change and The Sexual Life of Savages in North-Western Melanesia, his theorized that cultures were ruled by institutions in his A Scientific Theory of Culture. The sequel to one work studied the agricultural methods of the same tribe; that work includes accounts of an overseas expedition and the exchange of goods via the Kula ring. FTP, name this anthropologist, the author of Coral Gardens and their Magic and Argonauts of the Western Pacific.	Bronislaw Malinowski	Oedipus_Rex	False
411	Atomic absorption spectroscopy uses this effect to correct background, and in EPR this effect creates a gap in the energies of a paramagnetic center, which is then matched by a microwave emission. The alpha and pi lines that this effect produces absorb plane polarized radiation in perpendicular directions and the anomalous form of this effect prompted Land?and Heisenberg to introduce half integer quantum numbers. Also used to explain the Lyman-alpha transition in hydrogen, it can be reversed when sufficiently large field strengths disrupt the coupling between orbital and spin angular momenta in the Paschen-Back effect. For 10 points, name this effect, which occurs due to the splitting of energy levels and associated spectral lines by an external magnetic field.	Zeeman effect	Hall_effect	False
412	The Genoese admiral Emmanuele Pesagno was responsible for the buildup of this country's navy under King Dinis. The first major dynasty in this country was established after the defeat of the Count of Ourem, and one king of that dynasty gained a sobriquet after victories at Alcacer Ceguer and Arzila, before avenging a defeat of his father, King Edward. Philip Massinger's play Believe as You List treated the subject of the some four false versions of a monarch of this country that appeared after that monarch's army was slaughtered at Larache. Establishing bases in Goa, Malacca, and Hormuz, the end of this country's Aviz dynasty greatly weakened their colonial ambitions. For 10 points, name this country associated with explorers such as Da Gama and Prince Henry the Navigator.	Portugal	Martin_Luther_King_Jr.	False
413	"A poem named for one of these objects by D. H. Lawrence ends ""Down in the flood of remembrance, I weep like a child for the past."" In the oeuvre of William Gaddis, a type of these objects symbolizes the mechanization of the arts. One of these objects appears in the title of a novel in which the Ghost Shirt Society's rebellion against the Ilium Works is led by Paul Proteus. Erika Kohut begins a sexual relationship with Walter Klemmer in an Elfriede Jelinek novel named for a teacher of this instrument. One of these instruments contains carvings of Willie Boy's family in a play where it is played by Berenice to exorcise Sutter's ghost. For 10 points, name this instrument which appears in the title of an August Wilson play about its lesson."	"pianos [or player pianos before ""Jelinek""]"	Ghost	False
414	"One episode in this work recounts the rescue of a princess from the cannibal Soulless, and it applies the same rationale for secluding menstruating women to secluding oracles. It describes the ""making the curse to fly away"" ceremony of the Batta people in ""Transference of Ills,"" and the French tradition of lighting bonfires for Lent is linked to the Norse legend of Baldur in another section. The magical stage precedes the religious and scientific stages according to this work, which caused a scandal with a pagan reading of the Lamb of God and which is subtitled ""A Study in Magic and Religion."" For 10 points, name this anthropological study whose title refers to an object Aeneas used to enter the underworld, written by James Frazer."	The Golden Bough	The_Golden_Bough	True
415	"A deadly avian adenovirus causes the ""marble"" disease that affects this organ, and,it is completely absent in Ivemark syndrome. Deletions in 7q31-32 give rise to a lymphoma of its marginal zone, and it contains the cords of Billroth between its sinusoid vessels. It is surrounded by a fibroelastic and serous coats. This organ contains Malphigian corpuscles that contain germinal centers for lymphocyte production. Its marginal zone separates its red pulp and white pulp, and it can become enlarged as a result of diseases like Gaucher's and Epstein-Barr. Notably sequestered in sickle-cell anemia, for 10 points, identify this organ of the lymphatic system in which erythrocytes are both destroyed and stored."	spleen	Spleen	True
416	In Schwarzchild space, the Fokker-deSitter type of this behavior can occur, while in Kerr space an additional type of this behavior named for Schiff may occur. The Rashba effect causes one type of this phenomenon in spin, and another variety of it corrects for time dilation between electrons and the atomic nucleus and is named after Thomas. One type of this phenomenon is exploited in NMR spectroscopy and occurs when an external field is applied to magnetic moments, called the Larmor type. Irregularities in axial motion due to it are called nutation, and it is commonly demonstrated in gyroscopes. For 10 points, name this physical phenomenon in which the rotational axis of a body changes direction.	Precession	Nuclear_magnetic_resonance_spectroscopy	False
417	This ruler patronized such poets as Romanus the Melodist. This ruler took advantage of the death of Amalasuntha to invade Sicily. This man's reign saw a loss to Gelimer at Ad Decimum, but at Tricamarum generals serving this ruler defeated the Vandals. Another conflict occurring during this ruler's reign saw a major defeat at Callinicum, which was followed by a truce known as the Eternal Peace. He put down unrest instigated by members of the Blue and Green factions, and one of his most important achievements, which was overseen by Tribonian, solidified the power of the emperor and outlawed certain religious practices. For 10 points, name this Byzantine emperor, husband of Theodora and author of a revolutionary legal code.	Justinian I or Justinian the Great	Vandals	False
418	This country saw an easing of government monopolies under Tomas Cipriano de Mosquera, whose successor, Jose Hilario Lopez, contributed to ending slavery in this nation. In 1899, the drop in coffee prices ignited the War of a Thousand Days in this country, and in the 1970s, the electoral loss of Gustavo Rojas Pinilla in this country led to the formation of the 19th of April movement. The 1950s in this nation saw the regime of Laureano Gomez as well as a civil war known as La Violencia. Treaties signed between it and the United States include the Hay-Herran treaty, signed after Panama seceded from it. For ten points, identify this country home FARC, which is currently headed by Alvaro Uribe.	Republica de Colombia	Panama	False
419	In the Noyori [3+2] reaction, a compound containing two atoms of this element and nine carbonyl groups is used to generate cyclopentadienones. In some bacteria, a specific type of chelating agent known as a siderophore complexes with ions of this element, and its levels in the blood can be assayed by measuring FR5RI. Mohr's salt contains a central atom of this element, and seven atoms of it are found in every molecule of Prussian blue. Pauson and Kealy found this element coordinated to two cyclopentadiene molecules in the first example of a metallocene, and catalase contains four atoms of it coordinated to a certain tetrapyrrole. FTP, name this metal, which is found coordinated to porphyrin in myoglobin and hemoglobin.	iron	Hemoglobin	False
420	"After the populace shouts ""Ritorna vincitor!"", one character in this opera sings the aria ""Numi pieta,"" demonstrating her conflicting emotions. After being captured, Amonasro tells the protagonist about the ghost of her mother, causing her to eventually sing, ""O patria! Quanto mi costi!"" Its final act features a double scene, where one character is imprisoned in the Temple of Vulcan after revealing that he planned to attack using using the pass of Napata. The title character wins the love of Radames over her mistress Amneris, but is buried alive in a vault. For 10 points, name this opera about an Ethiopian princess by Giuseppe Verdi."	Aida	Aida	True
421	"This author wrote short stories about Paul Hilbert, who resolves to shoot six random people with a revolver, and Lucien Fleurier, who punches a Jew in the face after joining a Fascist organization called the Camelot du roi. Besides ""Erostratus"" and ""The Childhood of a Leader,"" this author wrote a play about a character who is sent poisoned chocolates in prison after killing the leader Hoederer, Hugo Barine, as well as a trilogy of novels about Mathieu Delarue, Roads to Freedom. His plays include The Respectful Prostitute and Dirty Hands, and he wrote a novel about a man who discovers that the essences of objects hide their existence, Antoine Roquentin. For 10 points, name this author of Nausea and No Exit."	Jean-Paul Sartre	Nausea	False
422	In one of this artist's paintings, a seven, an ace, and a face card fall out of a man's hand, below a couple kissing in a window under a broom. This painter depicted a bagpipe player sitting at a table and watching a dancing couple in The Kermess. He portrayed a large number of kids amusing themselves playing leapfrog and rolling hoops in his panoramic painting Children's Games, and painted skeletons destroying mankind in The Triumph of Death. In another of his paintings, puddings and pies are carried to a roomfull of people at the title celebration. For 10 points, name this Flemish artist of Peasant Wedding, Landscape With the Fall of Icarus, and Hunters in the Snow.	Pieter Brueghel the Elder	Wedding	False
423	He was almost killed by Gjalp and Greip, who after offering him a chair, tried to crush him by pushing him against the ceiling. This man ripped off Arvandil's toe and threw it into the sky, creating a new star. Two of his possessions could reheal themselves unless their bones were damaged, which Roskva did and subsequently became his handmaid. The gods angered him by promising his daughter to Alvis as a wife, but he turned Alvis to stone by keeping him busy until the sun rose. He wears the belt Megingjord and accidentally kicked Lit into Baldur's funeral pyre. His servant Thjalfi defeated a clay monster and his son Magni was the only one who could lift the giant Hrungnir off of him. For 10 points, name this god who defeated Hrungnir and Geirrod with his hammer, Mjolnir.	Thor	Henry_Clay	False
424	Examples of argentometric types include the Mohr version, which creates silver chromate. Dyes attracted to a charged precipitate are used in the Fajans version of this procedure, and the Kjeldahl determination uses another type of this analysis. The acid dissociation constant can be found using the slope of the Gran plot of this process, while it is done in nonaqueous solutions for very weak acids and bases because, due to the leveling effect, they do not have a distinct potentiometric end point Also known as volumetric analysis, for 10 points, this is what chemical analytical method that, in the acid-base variety, finds the equivalence point of a reaction by using an indicator, thus determining the concentration of a reagent?	"Titration (accept Indicator before ""process"")"	Acid	False
425	A lariat-dependent version of this process is known as LaNe RAGE, while another variation of this procedure uses the S-Tbr molecule and smaligos. A digital version of this procedure carries it out within emulsified droplets, while the Polony method suspends the targets in a solid matrix. Pfu or Pfx can replace one reagent in order to increase fidelity, and background products can be reduced by ramping down the temperature in the touchdown variant. SYBR green is a florescent probe often used in the real-time variation of this procedure, and modifying the amount of magnesium ions, template, and primer concentration is necessary for optimizing it. FTP, name this technique which amplifies a segment of DNA using Taq polymerase, developed by Kary Mullis.	Polymerase Chain Reaction or PCR	Polymerase_chain_reaction	True
426	"The second of Carl Orff's three Trionfi cantatas is based on the poetry of this author, in whom Verona rejoices according to the last of Ovid's Amores. In an epyllion by this author about the marriage of Peleus and Thetis, the description of a bedspread leads to a long digression containing the lament of Ariadne on Naxos. Another of his poems is addressed to Asinius Marrucinus, a notorious napkin thief. He described traveling over the sea to pay his respects to his dead brother in a poem which ends ""Ave atque vale,"" and wrote ""Odi et amo"" at the beginning of a poem to his mistress. For 10 points, name this Roman poet who wrote an elegy about the death of a pet sparrow and about his love affair with Lesbia."	Gaius Valerius Catullus	Ovid	False
427	One story about this battle says that the baggage train of one side's rear force was attacked by a band of peasants led by three knights, who stole jewels and a crown, leading to a panic in which that side ordered the killing of all of its prisoners. Casualties on one side included Michael de la Pole and Edward of Norwich, while the Duke of Barabant arrived late from a christening party. The losing side's vanguard was commanded by the Marshal Boucicaut, Jean le Maingre, and was notably decimated by longbowmen in this contest which saw the Constable Charles d'Albret defeated on St. Crispin's Day. For 10 points, name this big victory for Henry V in 1415 during the Hundred Years War.	Battle of Agincourt	Battle_of_Agincourt	True
428	"This thinker argued that metaphysicians who reify their biases for stable processes into principles that exist ""outside of experience"" commit the ""philosophical fallacy."" This philosopher distinguished between existential and ideational propositions in Logic: The Theory of Inquiry, and responded to Walter Lippmann's claim that the public could not successfully participate in democracy in The Public and Its Problems. Another of this thinker's works examines the pedagogical theories of Rousseau and Plato, and argues for in favor of experiential, progressive education. For 10 points, name this American pragmatist, the author of Experience and Nature and Democracy and Education."	John Dewey	Jean-Jacques_Rousseau	False
429	This civilization believed that humans had two souls, one of which returned to its place of origin after death. One deity of these people changed herself and her son into rocks after she was impregnated by a fruit made of sperm. These people were allegedly founded when four brothers and four sisters came out of the Tavern of Dawn. They believed that the world was created when a god sometimes known as Con-Tiki emerged from Lake Collasuya. These people also believed that their second ruler, Sinchi Roca, was son of a deity, who taught the art of spinning to mankind. That deity, Mama Ocllo, was the daughter of a sun deity, who was worshipped in the festival Raymi, Inti. For ten points, name this civilization, which worshiped deities like Illyapa and Viracocha, and was centered at Cuzco.	Inca or Incan	Set_(deity)	False
430	"In one of this author's novels, the protagonist is interrogated by policemen named Bookish and Fishermen about the murder of Mei after befriending a thirteen year old psychic at the Dolphin Hotel. In another, the protagonist avoids INKlings during a journey to an underground laboratory, and is assigned to read dreams from unicorn skulls by ""the gatekeeper."" This author of Dance, Dance, Dance wrote about a trilogy of novels about ""the Rat,"" including A Wild Sheep Chase, as well as Hard-Boiled Wonderland and the End of the World. For 10 points, name this contemporary Japanese novelist of Kafka on the Shore and The Wind-Up Bird Chronicle."	Haruki Murakami	Franz_Kafka	False
431	"Benjamin Franklin claimed to be indebted to this author for his highly practical civic study An Essay upon Projects. Mrs. Bargrave meets the title character, unaware that she is a ghost, in his short story ""The True Relation of the Apparition of One Mrs. Veal."" This author of the satirical poem ""The True Born Englishman"" wrote a novel about a woman whose maid Amy inspires her to accumulate a fortune by selling her body. In addition to that novel about a ""fortunate mistress,"" Roxana, this author chronicled a disease which ravaged London in 1665 in a work narrated by H.F, A Journal of the Plague Year. For 10 points, name this British author of Moll Flanders and Robinson Crusoe."	Daniel Defoe	Robinson_Crusoe	False
432	"One of this author's short stories centers on a young student hiking in the title peninsula who is taken aback, then relieved, when he sees a young girl running naked from a bathhouse. This author described a man who falls in love with a woman's earlobe in ""Her Husband Didn't,"" which appears in his short story collection First Snow on Fuji. This author wrote about the schoolteacher Gimpei Momei in The Lake, and about Eguchi, who spends the night with narcotized young women, in The House of the Sleeping Beauties. Another of his novels chronicles the relationship between the geisha Komako and Shimamura. For 10 points, name this Japanese author of The Master of Go and Snow Country."	Yasunari Kawabata	Snow_Country	False
433	These compounds become isocynates via a hydroxamic acid intermediate in the Lossen rearrangement, and undergo alpha-hydroxylation in the Chan reaction. Methods of synthesizing them include a migratory insertion which uses MCPBA on a ketone, and carboxylates of any length can be created using the synthesis named for the malonic type of them. Cyclic ones are known as lactones, and in addition to the aforementioned Baeyer-Villiger oxidation, they can be synthesized under reflux conditions in a reaction named for Fischer that uses an acid and an alcohol. Also undergoing the Claisen condensation when reacted with a base. FTP, name these organic compounds responsible for the sweet smell of fruit.	esters	Aldol_condensation	False
434	This city was the original capital of a duchy ruled by Otto de la Roche, and along with Orchomenos, it was once inhabitated by the Minyan people. One commander from this city unprecedentedly used a reserve contigent of cavaliers in one battle and was named Pagondas. Another general from this city led a 1000 man force to defend the construction site of Megalopolis and later took care of a notable hostage to this city. It lost the battles of Coronea but was responsible for the killing of Lysander at the earlier battle of Haliartus, and three of its generals were killed despite its victory at the Battle of Mantinea. The most famous general from this polity gave Pelopidas control of the Sacred Band and fought in the Battle of Leuctra. Home of Epaminondas, for 10 points, name this Greek-city state that gained hegemony prior to the Macedonian conquest.	Thebes	Thebes,_Greece	True
435	al performances in this short story include one by Bartell D'Arcy, who's described as full of conceit, while one character is shocked to learn that another character worked at the gasworks. One character in this short story debates whether he should quote Browning, and chooses Shakespeare because it seems less pretentious. That quote is part of a speech that he must give after he carves a goose. The story opens at a party held by Miss Kate and Miss Julia, who give an annual Christmas party. The dead man Michael Furey prevents Gretta from loving the central character of this story, who sees snow falling all over Ireland in the famous last paragraph of this story. For ten points, identify this story in which Gabriel Conroy joins the title group of people, which is the last story from Dubliners.	"""The Dead"""	Robert_Browning	False
436	"This thinker utilized anthropological techniques to attack philosophical problems in his work Available Light, while he contrasted two island societies with varying economic conditions in his work Peddlers and Princes. This thinker wrote about a situation in which all participants in a society portrayed different dramatic characters as societal roles at different times in his Negara: The Theater State. In addition to that work, he used the example of a Balinese cockfight to examine a game in which the stakes were so high it made sense for no participant to play, a situation which he termed ""deep play."" For ten points, identify this anthropologist who utilized ""thick description"" to analyze societies, which he advocated in his work The Interpretation of Cultures."	Clifford Geertz	Clifford_Geertz	True
437	"This author described a mystical nightingale-catching dwarf nicknamed the Flea in the short story ""Kasyan From the Beautiful Lands."" In an essay, this author argued that all mankind can be divided into into the character types of Hamlet and Don Quixote. His first novel is named for a ""man of the forties"" whose passionate rhetoric inspires love in Natasha Lasunsky, and his only major play focuses on Natalya Islaev, who schemes to marry off Vera after falling in love with her tutor Belyaev. This author of Rudin and A Month in the Country collected his stories about rural Russian peasants in A Sportsman's Sketches. For 10 points, name this Russian author who wrote about the nihilist Bazarov in Fathers and Sons."	Ivan Turgenev	Fathers_and_Sons_(novel)	False
438	A mutation in the enzyme catalyzing the final step of its biosynthesis gives rise to Smith-Lemli-Opitz syndrome, while its presence in plasma is measured by the Lieberman-Burchard test. The SREBP transcription factors are regulated by this molecule. One step of its biosynthesis sees the creation of a certain 2,3-epoxide, which then cyclizes, and it is sometimes stored in chylomicrons. Farnesyl pyrophosphate and squalene are intermediates in that process and that pathway begins with the condensation of three acetyl coAs to yield HMG-CoA, which is reduced to mevalonate. That step is regulated by drugs called statins. For 10 points, identify this ubiquitous steroid that can cause atherosclerosis when bound to lipoproteins.	cholesterol	Enzyme	False
439	"One author from this country described the building of a dam in his Star of August, criticized multinational corporations in The Committee, and described his prison experiences in The Smell of It. Another author from this country collected his ""stories and polemics"" in The Sufferers, wrote the autobiography The Days, and advocated nationalism in a work titled The Future of Culture in this country. This country is home to the playwright of The People of the Cave and The Sultan's Dilemma as well as the author of Miramar and a trilogy about Kamal. Home to Sonallah Ibrahim and Taha Hussein, for 10 points, name this country, the setting of Lawrence Durrell's Alexandria Quartet and Naguib Mahfouz's Cairo Trilogy."	the Arab Republic of Egypt [accept Gumhuriyyat Misr al-Arabiyyah]	Naguib_Mahfouz	False
440	"This country's literary tradition includes a book of poetry detailing the narrator's escapades with Urraca to debauch mountain women, The Book of Good Love. An author from this country wrote about Crispin's plot to swindle the father of Silvia in Bonds of Interest. This country also produced an author who published a Secret Dictionary of dirty words in its native language, and an author who created a ""nivola"" about Augusto, Niebla. Home to the author of The Hive and The Family of Pascual Duarte, this country's literary movements include the Generation of 98 and Generation of 27. For 10 points, name this country home to Camilo Jose Cela, Juan Ramon Jimenez, and Miguel de Cervantes."	Spain [or Espa?]	Miguel_de_Cervantes	False
441	It was proposed by Ginsburg as a way to generate microwaves, and is relied on in a variation of liquid scintillation counting. It can result from the Askaryan effect, and an unusual type of it can exist near a periodic structure with Bragg scattering, which was confirmed by Smith and Purcell. Its energy is measured by calculating its cone angle, and its cause was explained by Tamm and Frank. Sometimes found surrounding the fuel elements of a nuclear reactor, for 10 points, name this blue glowing light that is emitted when a charged particle travels at a speed greater than the speed of light in a medium.	Cherenkov radiation or effect or light	Speed_of_light	False
442	"This character exclaims ""what a pretty claw!"" after being shown a ""bodily defect"" of a woman he has a romantic involvement with. This character is sent by a manufacturer to a cramped, two-doored attic apartment filled with small girls to meet with a painter who forces him to buy identical landscapes, Tintorelli. He becomes jealous of Block, a tradesman in his same situation, for staying overnight with Leni, before firing Herr Huld, a lawyer recommended to him by Uncle Karl. He is executed in a quarry ""like a dog"" after a priest tells him a parable about a man who comes ""before the law."" For 10 points, name this banker who is accused of an unknown crime in Franz Kafka's The Trial."	Joseph K	The_Trial	False
443	The Weber number is inversely proportional to this quantity, while one must correct for deviations in this quantity in circular matter using Tolman's delta. One method of measuring this quantity is the Wilhelmy plate method, and this quantity is zero at the critical point according to the Eotvos rule. Mass transfer due to this property is called the Marangoni effect, and one equation states that this is equal to the pressure difference divided by the sum of the inverses of the radii of curvature; that equation is named for Young and Laplace. Surfactants lower this value, which is responsible for tears of wine. FTP, name this property of liquids that allows bugs to walk across a lake.	Surface Tension	Curvature	False
444	"This novel parodies Freudianism in a chapter about the protagonist's dream of holding a live fish in his hands. In this novel's final chapter, the protagonist realizes why a prostitute often beat his ex-roommate over the head with a shoe. It satirizes McCarthyism in a chapter about the Great Loyalty Oath Crusade, and in its chapter ""The Eternal City,"" the protagonist realizes the title means that ""they have a right to do anything that you can't stop them from doing."" This novel's protagonist sleeps with Luciana, Nurse Duckett, and the wife of General Scheisskopf, and runs away to Sweden after the death of Snowden causes him to oppose Colonel Korn and Colonel Cathcart. For 10 points, name this World War II novel about Yossarian by Joseph Heller."	Catch-22	Catch-22	True
445	This anatomical structure is involved in the Jod-Basedow and Wolff-Chaikoff effects. The gene Pax8 is required for the formation of its follicular cells, and antibodies are produced against its namesake peroxidase enzyme in an autoimmune disease named for Hashimoto. The iodination of tyrosine is involved in creating its namesake hormones, deficiencies of which in newborns can lead to cretinism. Found on the ventral surface of the trachea, this bi-lobed structure produces calcitonin. For 10 points, name this gland, an enlarged version of which is associated with Graves' disease, and is known as a goiter.	thyroid gland	Thyroid	True
446	The Corey-Bakshi-Shibata catalyst contains a toluene molecule bound to one of these atoms, and the reducing agent L-selectride contains lithium and this element. Acids of this element react with alkyl halides in the Suzuki coupling, and complexes of this element adopt closo, nido, and arachno configurations according to Wade's rules. 9-BBN contains this element, and another reaction that uses it was developed by Herbert Brown and is a counterpart to oxymercuration that violates Markovnikov's rule. FTP, name this electron deficient element whose sodium hydride is a common reducing agent, with atomic number 5 and symbol B.	Boron	Lithium	False
447	"In contemporary politics, this country's far right has seen such groups as MIEP, a break off of the Smallholder's Party. Historically, fascists in this country included the Palffy and Mesko-led ""Green Shirts"", but more successful was a revolt raised by the publishers of ""Ten Commandments of the Storm Troopers"", the Scythe Cross, which took power east of the Tisza and was led by Zoltan Boszomeny. This country's fascists' dreams were realized with the Vienna Concessions, including the Arrow Cross Party of Ferenc Szalasi, who led this nation after the Nazi-enforced deposing of its long-time ""regent"", Miklos Horthy. The revision of the Treaty of Trianon was a major issue in, for 10 points, what country, a former partner in the dual monarchy with Austria?"	Republic of Hungary [or Magyarorszag]	Austria	False
448	"This author wrote about his friendship with Panamanian dictator Omar Torrijos in Getting to Know the General. Ida Arnold and the gangster Pinkie Brown investigate the murder of Hale in a novel by this author named for a type of candy. He wrote a novel about the love triangle between Thomas Fowler, a Vietnamese woman named Phuong, and Alden Pyle, and a novel about James Wormold, who passes off vacuum designs as top-secret intelligence. Besides Brighton Rock, The Quiet American, and Our Man in Havana, he also wrote about a ""whiskey priest"" captured and killed in Mexico. For 10 points, name this British author of The Heart of the Matter and The Power and the Glory."	Graham Greene	The_Power_and_the_Glory	False
449	"In one of this composer's works, an allegro vivo theme represents a green coat and red shoes being made on a poplar branch. This composer wrote an opera about the exiled Bohu?, who returns to his father in Paris, called The Jacobin, as well as symphonic variations on ""The Fiddler."" This composer's piano music includes two sets of Silhouettes and a cycle of Humoresques, and he composed a widely performed cello concerto in B minor. This composer's fourth piano trio is known as ""Dumky,"" and he incorporated the spiritual ""Goin' Home"" in a symphony that used the pentatonic scale and snap rhythms to represent Native Americans. For 10 points, name the composer of the American string quartet the symphony From the New World."	Antonin Dvorak	Symphony_No._9_(Dvořák)	False
450	"In one poem, this author wrote that ""to say would be to sing,"" ""a frown would be a smile,"" and november would be may"" if ""seventy were young and death uncommon."" This poet wrote about ""four lean hounds crouched low and smiling"" who hunt a ""horse of gold / into the silver dawn"" in a poem beginning ""all in green went my love riding."" He described people who ""masturbate with dynamite"" and ""shake the mountains when they dance"" in ""the boys I mean are not refined,"" and wrote about a soldier who responds to torture by repeating ""there is some shit I will not eat"" in a poem collected in ViVa, ""I sing of Olaf glad and big."" For 10 points, name this American poet of ""anyone lived in a pretty how town,"" whose poetry is marked by irregular stanzas and unusual grammar."	Edward Estlin Cummings	Elegy_Written_in_a_Country_Churchyard	False
451	This metal is coordinated to four ammonia groups and two water molecules in a reagent that is used to dissolve cellulose and is named of Schweizer, while another solution containing it is an alternative to Tollen's reagent that tests for only alipathic aldehydes. One solution that contains this metal is used to find monosaccharides and reducing sugars in solution by creating a brick-red precipitate. In addition to Fehling's solution and Benedict's reagent, this metal is the central atom in a reagent used to make 1-4 additions to unsaturated ketones named for Gilman. Its also found in azurin and cytochrome c proteins. FTP, name this metal often found in wire and whose +2 ion appears blue in solution, with atomic number 29 and symbol Cu.	Copper	Aldehyde	False
452	"One of this thinker's works bashes Kant's development of the moral argument for God's existence as an outgrowth of an implicit belief in ""the maxims he had imbibed at his mother's knee."" This philosopher coined the phrase ""sense-data"" to describe different perceptions of a table, and considered the truth of the sentence ""the King of France is bald"" in his essay ""On Denoting."" This author of The Problems of Philosophy developed a theory of types to resolve a paradox about the set of all sets that are not members of themselves, which is named for him. For 10 points, name this author of Why I am Not a Christian, who cowrote Principia Mathematica along with Alfred North Whitehead."	Bertrand Russell	Immanuel_Kant	False
453	"In one tale, Erra threatens him when he neglects his duties, but conflict is averted by the priest Ishum. The ""King of the Igigi"", his weapons include Imhullu the tempest and the Abuba, the volcano. He rides a chariot pulled by Slayer, Pitiless, Racer and Flyer, and he was born as an adult with four eyes and four ears. He split the Anunnaki into 300 to guard the sky and 600 to live on earth, and Marukka and Tutu are among the fifty names given him by Anshar. His mother was Damkina, and his father had earlier killed Mummu, and used a sleeping spell to kill Apsu. After Anu's failed peace-keeping attempt, he succeeds in killing Kingu and then seizes the Tablet of Destinies. Then he defeats Tiamat, using her to make the heavens and the earth. For 10 points, name this central figure of the Enuma Elish, the chief god of Babylonian mythology."	Marduk	Marduk	True
454	"In one of this author's works, Lll leaves the narrator to marry the fish N'ba N'ga. In another, the narrator creates galaxies by playing marbles with hydrogen atoms. Those stores, ""The Aquatic Uncle"" and ""Games Without End,"" are narrated by Qfwfq, who also narrates four stories in this author's collection t zero. This author's trilogy Our Ancestors ends with a novel about a suit of armor named Agilulf, The Nonexistant Knight. In another of this author's novels, the locations of Olinda, Zobeide, and Armilla are described by Marco Polo to Kubla Khan, while in yet another, you, the reader, pursue an international book fraud. For 10 points, name this author of Invisible Cities and If on a Winter's Night a Traveler."	Italo Calvino	Kubla_Khan	False
455	"One ancient tribe in this country burned down some trees to create the Horton Plains hunting ground, and a cultural upheaval here began with the displacement of the Hela people. One triangular ""water fortress"" in this country was given the moniker ""resplendent city of growing victory"" after Prince Sapumal of its kingdom of Kotte finally conquered the Jaffna Kingdom. It was conquered by the might of Rajendra and Raja Raja of the Chola, who built a notable base in its town of Nagapattinam, and its last independent bastion was conquered in 1815 and was thereafter referred to as the Kingdom of Kandy. One rebel group here regularly uses child soldiers and suicide bombing and is known as the LTTE. Lying on the south side of the Palk Strait, for 10 points, name this Tamil and Sinhalese island nation south of India."	Sri Lanka [or Ceylon]	Sri_Lanka	True
456	In one story, this figure was accompanied by Maera, the daughter of Proteus. This figure killed Chione after she boasted of sleeping with another deity, and helped to foil Alpheus' lust-filled plans by turning Arethusa into a fountain. As a child this figure removed a patch of hair from the chest of a Cyclopes, and in another story was attended by a group of twenty ocean nymphs. In addition to defeating Gration in battle, this figure once turned into an animal and ran between the Aloadae giants in order to trick them into killing each other. Often identified with the Minoan deity Britomartis, it was one of this figure's followers who gave birth to Arcas and was subsequently turned into a bear. In order to protect her family's name, she also slew Coronis, as well as the twelve offspring of Amphion after his wife, Niobe, insulted her mother. For 10 points, identify this figure who transformed Actaeon into a deer, the daughter of Leto and the twin sister of Apollo.	Artemis	Apollo	False
457	"On the day Nazi troops moved into this country, an afternoon newspaper printed all of its articles double-spaced in order to alert citizens to ""read between the lines."" Teenagers in this country formed their own partisan movement called the Churchill Gang, while other efforts were coordinated by the Freedom Council. The vast majority of Jews in this country were saved from an impending Nazi action by ambulance drivers who looked for Jewish names in phone books and used their vehicles to hide whomever they found. The Lutheran Church recognizes Kaj Munk, a pastor in this country who was killed after delivering an anti-Nazi sermon, as a martyr, and its other World War II figures included the collaborationist prime minister Erik Scavenius.After a German officer threatened to shoot anyone removing the swastika flag from this country's government headquarters, the king of this country volunteered to climb the flagpole himself. For 10 points, name this country where a false urban legend states that king, Christian X, wore a yellow star himself."	Denmark	The_Holocaust	False
458	During World War II, resistance movements in this country included the Legality Party. Abdyl Ypi was unable to attend the Congress of Lushnj? which reformed this country, because he was assassinated by the puppet government which ruled from Durr?. This modern state declared its independence in the Vlor?Proclamation, shortly after which it was ruled for six months by the German prince Wilhelm zu Wied. Riven by conflict between the traditionalist bajraktars and the liberalizing forces led by Fan Noli, it was later oppressed by a secret police called the Sigurimi. Since 1990, events in this country have included the fall of Ramiz Alia's dictatorship and the bankrupting of most of its population during a 1997 wave of pyramid schemes. Invaded by Italy during World War II, this country was once ruled by King Zog. For 10 points, name this state which became an isolated outpost of the Communist world under its longtime ruler Enver Hoxha.	Albania	Italy	False
459	"Robert Bly wrote a poem about visiting this person's grave with Robert Francis, a subject also treated by the poet Leo Connellan. Sandra Gilbet wrote poems both about this person's ""bread"" and about her ""Black Cake Walk."" Peter Meinke wrote a poem about this person ""In Hell."" A poem addressed ""To"" this figure notes ""You who desired so much--in vain to ask-- / Yet fed you hunger like an endless task"" and ""Achieved that stillness ultimately best"" and was written by Hart Crane. Billy Collins wrote a poem entitled ""Taking off [This Person]'s Clothes,"" which ends by noting that ""reason is a plank,"" ""hope has feathers,"" and ""life is a loaded gun."" For 10 points, identify this poet, whose own works include ""I taste a liquor never brewed,"" ""Because I could not stop for death,"" and ""I heard a fly buzz when I died."""	Emily Dickinson	Hart_Crane	False
460	"A band of this name is the only one ever given permission to change the lyrics of a Bob Marley song. That song, their cover of ""No Woman, No Cry"", appeared on their first album Room For Abuse, while their other songs include ""Kicking Pigeons"" and ""Ego."" One enormously fat character of this name claims to ""look and smell as lovely as a rose"" before being crushed, along with Aunt Spiker, by a giant peach in a Roald Dahl work. In a TV episode titled for one of these objects, controversy erupts over the label on a pair of size 31 jeans and Bob and Cedric beat up a man for not wearing an AIDS ribbon. In that Seinfeld episode, Elaine attempts to determine whether Billy is ""worthy"" of one of these objects. For 10 points, identify this word that also refers to a certain Bikini Bottom native with square pants."	sponge [accept [spunge], Aunt Sponge, contraceptive sponge, or even SpongeBob]	Song_of_Songs	False
461	"This thinker distinguished between theories about the actual world, or ""models of,"" and theories about theoretical worlds, or ""models for."" This social scientist described the ""Doctrine of the Exemplary Center"" in a book which uses the figures of Lyusi and Kalidjaga to represent different forms of religious belief. This anthropologist defined descriptions of cultural events that use the particular language of those events as ""local knowledge."" He argued that anthropological relativism is based on data and warned against retreating into provincialism in his lecture ""Anti-Anti-Relativism."" This anthropologist defined religion as a ""system of symbols"" in Religion as a Cultural System, and used Gilbert Ryle's example of the distinction between an involuntary twitch and a deliberate wink to illustrate his concept of ""thick description."" For 10 points, name this anthropologist who used the Balinese cockfight to explain his concept of ""deep play."""	Clifford Geertz	Clifford_Geertz	True
462	"One author from this country described the freezing of Mientus's face as the result of a ""duel of grimaces"" with Siphon. That writer from this country spent two decades in Argentina attempting to make a Spanish translation of one of his novels and composing an account of his exile entitled Trans-Atlantyk. That writer from this country included the story ""The Rat"" in his Memoirs of a Time of Immaturity and also described the suitor of Zutka, a thirty-year old man named Johnnie, who is abducted by his old schoolmaster, Professor Pimko, and returned to the classroom. This country is home to the author of Kosmos, Pornografia, and Ferdydurke, as well as the author of patriotic historical fiction such as Without Dogma, The Deluge, and With Fire and Sword. For 10 points, identify this homeland of the man who wrote the Roman-set religious novel Quo Vadis?, Henryk Sienkiewicz, as well as Witold Gombrowicz."	Poland	Argentina	False
463	"A Communist group in this country once assassinated the chairwoman of its Red Cross because she was the widow of a detested former president. Forces of this country, which was the subject of the Benevolent Assimilation Proclamation, were killed during an outnumbered stand at the Battle of Tirad Pass after a constitution for this country was ratified at the Malolos Congress. A war fought in this country saw one general order ""kill everyone over the age of ten"" and lingered on as the Moro Rebellion. This country was also the site of the Balangiga Massacre, during a war in which the Taft Commission acted as its legislature. The Tydings-McDuffie Act made this country independent, over thirty years after the Macabebe Scouts acted at Palanan to help Frederick Funston capture Emilio Aguinaldo. For 10 points, name this country which rebelled for independence, first against Spain and then against the United States, decades before it was ruled by Ferdinand Marcos."	Republic of the Philippines [or Republika ng Pilipinas]	Ferdinand_Marcos	False
464	"In one of this author's stories, a physician married an ""ill-tempered woman"" who does nothing but sleep in order to punish himself for falling in love with Alexandra, a dying maiden. In addition to ""The District Doctor,"" this man wrote a novel in which the protagonist's plan to marry Liza is thwarted when he finds his purportedly dead wife, Varvara Pavlova, waiting for him in the foyer. In another of his novels, the titular friend of Lezhnev impresses the household of Darya Mikhailovna and falls in love with Natasha. Vassily Vassilevitch goes to Alexander Mikhalyich's dinner party in this man's story ""Hamlet of the Shchigrovsky District,"" and this man wrote about Elena's fascination with the Bulgarian Insarov in On the Eve. Another work by this author of The Home of the Gentry and Rudin discusses the dissection of a frog and a man's death from cutting himself with an infected knife during surgery. For 10 points, name this Russian author of The Sportsman's Sketches who created Kirsanov and Bazarov and Fathers and Sons."	Ivan Sergeyevich Turgenev	Fathers_and_Sons_(novel)	False
465	During his time as a papal legate in Scandinavia, this man established Trondheim as the metropolitan see of Norway. Cardinal Boso wrote his biography and Matthew Paris doubted the authenticity of a papal bull supposedly issued by this man, Laudabiliter. This successor to Anastasius IV placed an interdict on Rome until that city got rid of the problematic Arnold of Brescia, and he was forced to call the Diet of Beascaon after signing the Treaty of Benevento with William I of Sicily. Even though this man renewed the Treaty of Constance, he developed a hostile relationship with Frederick Barbarossa, whom he had earlier crowned as Holy Roman Emperor in 1155. Succeeded by Alexander III and born Nicholas Breakspear, for 10 points, name this only English Pope.	Hadrian IV [or Adrian IV]	Frederick_I,_Holy_Roman_Emperor	False
466	Sohrab Modi starred as the title character in a 1935 Indian version of it called Khoon-ka Khoon, which added seventeen songs to the work. A special jury prize at the 1964 Venice Film Festival went to a version of it in which Innokenty Smoktunovsky played the title character. That version was directed by Grigory Kozintsev, and was based on a translation of this work by Boris Pasternak. A Mystery Science Theater 3000 episode featured a re-enactment of a famous scene from this work as a game show in which participants had to identify the femur of Biz Markie; that episode watched a German version of this work that starred Maximilian Schell. Georges M?i? played the title character in a 1907 adaptation of this work which reduced it to ten minutes in length. Julie Christie played the title character's mother in a 1996 film of it, and a 2000 adaptation of it by Michael Almereyda is set in New York City and features the title character as a film student played by Ethan Hawke, who investigates goings-on at the Denmark Corporation. For 10 points, name this play which has also seen Kenneth Branagh and Laurence Olivier star in the title role of a melancholy denizen of Elsinore.	Hamlet	Miss_Julie	False
467	"One author from this nation wrote the poetry collection Ocre before drowning herself in 1938, the year Death-Mask and Clover appeared. A more recent author from this nation wrote the poetry collection Standards as well as Lycanthropy, a history of werewolfism. In addition to Alfonsina Storni and Jorge Fondebrider, this nation was home to the author of the story ""The Horses of Abdera"" and the poetry collection Sentimental Lunarium, though that author is better known for a 1905 book about a guerrilla war. In one work by a man from this country, Nestor Labarthe's murder at a soccer game signals to Isidro Vidal that the ""Young Turks"" are about to slaughter the elderly, and in another work by that denizen of this nation, people die after the titular device re-creates two weeks in the lives of the inhabitants of an island. For 10 points, name this home country of the author of Asleep in the Sun, Diary of the War of the Pig, and The Invention of Morel, Adolfo Bioy Casares, who often collaborated with Jorge Luis Borges."	Argentina	Jorge_Luis_Borges	False
468	"A letter of Joseph Jones told this man to be on the lookout for ""dangerous combinations"" and ""sinister practices,"" and the Louis Nicola letter to this man proposed that he proclaim himself dictator. This man quashed a conspiracy instigated by Christopher Richmond and John Armstrong. The goal of that movement was to illicitly use this man's prestige to gain the power to tax imports. When this man denounced that attempt of Alexander McDougall and Walter Stewart, known as the Newburgh Conspiracy, he took out glasses and stated that he had grown both gray and blind. This man was also targeted by the inspector general of the army, who was miffed that this figure had not granted a promotion to major general, and sought to replace this man with Horatio Gates. For 10 points, identify this target of the Conway Cabal, who went on to name such figures as Henry Knox and Alexander Hamilton to his Cabinet."	George Washington	Alexander_Hamilton	False
469	"This thinker compiled a didactic set of essays on education and religion originally attributed to Lady Mary Wray. That work, The Ladies Library, preceded a piece on Mt. Vesuvius and a work with a Latin title analyzing the nature of motion. He expressed an interest in monetary reform in The Querist and in another essay penned the line, ""Westward the course of empire takes its way.""In addition to criticizing the theory of fluxions, he argued against Malebranche's representationalist theories by positing that because we perceive objects, but can only immediately perceive ideas, it is virtually impossible for an object to exist outside of the mind. That idea, now known as ""the master argument,"" was elaborated upon in a work written ""in opposition to Skeptics and Atheists,"" as a supplement to his 1710 work Treatise Concerning the Principles of Human Knowledge. For 10 points, identify this Bishop of Cloyne who wrote The Analyst and Three Dialogues Between Hylas and Philonous."	George Berkeley	George_Berkeley	True
470	"At one point the speaker admits his contradictory tone when he asserts that his call to is always full of ""get away."" In another of these poems, the speaker notes that humans ""don't love like flowers"" and that ""memory climbs into our arms."" In yet another selection, the speaker discusses the ""cheap winter hats of fate"" made by the milliner, Madame Lamort. Although the first one celebrates the accomplishments of a brokenhearted 16th Century poet in publishing her Rime, the second to last of them is more pessimistic as it compares the ""half-certainty"" of a bird to an ""Etruscan soul."" That poem, the eighth, is dedicated to Rudolf Kassner and is preceded by another, containing a description of acrobats tumbling, inspired by Picasso and dedicated to Frau Hertha Koenig. This cycle of poems, which was ultimately completed in 1922, begins with the speaker asking, ""If I cry out, who would hear me through the Angel orders?"" and was named for a castle in Trieste. For 10 points, identify this collection of ten poems, whose subtitle marks them as ""property of Princess Marie von Thurn und Taxis-Hohenlohe,"" a work by Rainer Maria Rilke."	The Duino Elegies	Speaker_of_the_United_States_House_of_Representatives	False
471	"It argued for two kinds of love, a love of charity and a love of viciousness. Its third section focused on certain ideas popularized by Luis de Molina, while its second discussed the Fall of Man and emphasized a particular interpretation of ""efficacious grace."" Primarily concerned with denouncing those who worship Aristotle, who are characterized as modern Pelagians, it was published five years after its author's earlier work, Mars Gallicus. Its propositions on predestination were condemned first by the Sorbonne and then in a bull called Cum Occasione by Pope Innocent X. Posthumously published in 1640, its ideas were defended by such thinkers as Antoine Arnauld and in such works as The Provincial Letters by Blaise Pascal. Written by a Bishop of Ypres, for 10 points, identify this foundational text of Jansenism named after the author of City of God."	The Augustinus	Blaise_Pascal	False
472	This man built a massive internal intelligence force under the leadership of Salah Nasr. The rise to the Jordanian presidency of Suleiman al-Nabusi lent support to one of this man's major political endeavors, though Abdel Qasim's defeat of al-Shawaf in Iraq led to further persecution of Communists. Despite the suspicions of Ibrahim Hadi this man helped form a coalition of junior officers under the leadership of Mohammed Naguib known as the Free Officers. An invasion by Israel, England, and France provoked a crisis that resulted from this man's nationalization of the Suez Canal. For 10 points, name this Egyptian president and leader of the United Arab Republic.	Gamal {Abdel Nasser}	Suleiman_the_Magnificent	False
473	"The declaration of one character in this play that ""Our revels now are ended"" is sometimes seen as its author's farewell to the stage. One character in this play allies with the clownish Trinculo and the drunken butler Stephano to plot a rebellion. One character in this play guides another character by singing the lines ""Full fathom five thy father lies."" The deceased witch Sycorax is the mother of one character in this play, which opens after Antonio usurps the throne of Milan. In this play, Caliban fails in his attempts at revolt and Ariel serves a central character after being freed from a tree. For 10 points, name this Shakespeare play in which Miranda and her magician father Prospero are stranded on an island."	 The Tempest	The_Tempest	True
474	This figure reunites with her father, alternately called Schoeneus or Iasius, in between the two primary myths involving her. After taking an oath, this figure kills the lustful centaurs Rhoikos and Hylaois. Althaia kindles a brand after one man kills his uncles Toxeus and Plexippus for insulting this woman. As punishment for having sex in Cybele's temple, this woman is turned into a lion. This huntress was raised by a she-bear and first wounded the Calydonian Boar in one story, and in another, she is distracted by golden apples and loses a footrace to Hippomenes. For 10 points, name this Argonaut and Greek warrior woman.	Atalanta	Atalanta	True
475	"This economist asked ""What need of a House of Commons or of a House of Lords?"" in Observations on Parliamentary Reform. His namesake equivalence was popularized by Robert J. Barro. One of his works, subtitled ""A Proof of the Depreciation of Bank Notes,"" argues for the adoption of a metallic currency and is titled The High Price of Bullion. His most famous work sets out a theory of rent which was criticized by Malthus, as well as introducing the idea of comparative value. For 10 points, name this economist who wrote Principles of Political Economy and Taxation and espoused the Iron Law of Wages."	David Ricardo	Thomas_Robert_Malthus	False
476	"One speaker in this poem remembers ""They called me the hyacinth girl"" after quoting a German song that translates to ""Fresh blows the Wind."" This poem notes the ""falling towers"" of ""Jerusalem Athens Alexandria Vienna London."" This poem also references an ""unreal city"" and a ""famous clairvoyante"" with ""a bad cold"" and ""a wicked deck of cards."" Madame Sosotris appears in the section of this poem called ""The Burial of the Dead"" which opens with the line ""April is the cruelest month."" For 10 points, name this poem which ends with the Sanskrit mantra ""Shantih shantih shantih,"" a work of T.S. Eliot."	The Waste Land	The_Waste_Land	True
477	"This man argued that a just God would not inflict ""eternal punishment for temporary offences"" in an essay that argued against the immortality of the soul. Pamphilus observes the conversations of Demea, Cleanthes, and Philo in his Dialogues concerning Natural Religion. The is-ought problem is also known as this man's fork. His most famous work contains a section on miracles, and also considers the problem of the missing shade of blue. For 10 points, name this member of the Scottish Enlightenment whose Treatise on Human Nature was reworked into An Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding."	David Hume	An_Enquiry_Concerning_Human_Understanding	False
478	The protagonist of this novel believes that his grandfather is a paper magnate living in Buffalo, New York under the name Joe Colchic. Its protagonist is accused of the murder of Sister Dorothea Kongetter after falling in love with Roswitha Raguna while working for Bebra's troupe. Alfred swallows a party pin in this novel, and his son is the protagonist who helps Bronski steal a necklace for Agnes by cutting a hole through glass with his voice. The protagonist of this novel grows a hump after he stops growing at the age of three. For 10 points, name this novel about Oskar Matzerath who plays the title musical instrument, the first book of the Danzig Trilogy by Gunter Grass.	The Tin Drum [or Die Blechtrommel]	The_Tin_Drum	True
479	"Some buildings that this architect designed using interconnected textile blocks include his Freeman House, ""La Miniatura,"" and Ennis House. This architect designed the Wingspread for the same client for whom he produced the no-walled ""Great Workroom,"" the interior of the Johnson Wax Headquarters. Roman brick and Bedford limestone were used in this architect's Robie House, which exemplifies his Prairie style of architecture. This architect of the Tokyo Imperial Hotel is best known for a cantilevered structure for Edgar Kaufmann in southwestern Pennysylvania. For 10 points, name this American architect who designed Fallingwater."	Frank Lloyd Wright 	Frank_Lloyd_Wright	True
480	"The term ""shoe leather cost"" refers to the cost of trying to counterbalance this phenomenon. The Mundell-Tobin effect arises as a result of it. Keynesians have argued that it can causes labor markets to reach equilibrium faster. Andrew Jackson's Specie Circular was implemented in order to mitigate it. It has notably affected the Hungarian pengo, the Weimar mark, and, most recently, the Zimbabwean dollar. For 10 points, name this phenomenon which occurs when the money supply increases faster than the rate of economic growth."	inflation	Andrew_Jackson	False
481	This god was the lover of Melaina and Corycia, the daughters of Cephissus, who was turned into a sea monster by this god. This god's lover Cyparissus asked that his tears fall forever in penance for killing a tame deer, a penance this god granted by turning Cyparissus into a cypress tree. This god served as shepherd for King Admetus for one year as punishment for avenging the death of his son Asclepius, but his less forgiving actions include flaying the satyr Marsyas. This lover of Hyacinthus exchanged several of his cattle with Hermes for the first tortoise-shell lyre. Also known for pursuing Daphne, for 10 points, name this Greek god of light, music, and the arts.	Apollo	Hermes	False
482	"This work concludes by mentioning a Roman judge who would ask accusers cui bono. Its first section, ""Of Man,"" gives competition, diffidence and glory as the three causes of conflict, while its middle two sections discuss commonwealths and Christian commonwealths, respectively, and its fourth and final section is concerned with a ""confederacy of deceivers"" called the kingdom of darkness. This work argues that only a strong sovereign can prevent a war of all against all. For 10 points, name this work which characterizes life as ""solitary, poor, nasty, brutish and short,"" a book by Thomas Hobbes."	 Leviathan	Leviathan_(Hobbes_book)	True
483	The tunneling of electrons between objects displaying this property separated by an insulator is described in the Josephson effect. When metals with this property are placed in a magnetic field they repel the field demonstrating perfect diamagnetism, which can be seen in the levitation of a magnet above them. That effect postulated by Ochsenfeld and Meissner is described in a theory of it stating that this arises from the condensation of electron pairs. That BCS theory states this phenomenon is linked with the formation of Cooper pairs, allowing for increased electric flow. For 10 points, name this property characterized by zero resistance in very cold metals.	 superconductivity [or superconductor]	Diamagnetism	False
484	In one of this author's novels, Pavel tells a story about how he threw a newlywed couple out of a carriage to save himself from wolves. In a second novel by this author, Frank shoots his wife Marie when he finds her cavorting with the protagonist's brother Emil in an orchard. In the former novel by this author, the protagonist first works for the Harlings and then takes a job with Wick Cutter after establishing a relationship with Jim Burden in Black Hawk.  The latter work of this author centers on Carl Linstrum's relationship with Alexandra Bergson and is set in Hanover, Nebraska. For 10 points, name this author of O Pioneers! who wrote about the Bohemian Shimerdas in My Antonia.	Willa Cather	My_Ántonia	False
485	"This economist wrote a work on ""the conduct of universities by business men"" entitled The Higher Learning in America. He lends his name to a type of luxury good which violates the law of demand. This author of The Theory of Business Enterprise also wrote a work with a section on ""The Belief in Luck."" That work cites festive celebrations as an example of spending for the purpose of displaying one's wealth. For 10 points, name this economist who coined the term ""conspicuous consumption"" in The Theory of the Leisure Class."	Thorstein Veblen	The_Theory_of_the_Leisure_Class	False
486	"These numbers can be obtained by the generating function ""x"" over quantity ""1-x-x2"", and a closed form expression of them is obtained from Binet's formula. The first two of these numbers are different from the first two Lucas numbers, but both sets satisfy the same recursion relation. Named for the author of the Book of the Abacus, these numbers' successive ratios approach 1.618, the golden ratio. They occur in the sums of diagonals in Pascal's Triangle and various places in nature such as the multiplication of rabbits. The nth of these is equal to the n minus 1st plus the n minus 2nd of them. For 10 points, name this sequence whose initial entries are 0, 1, 1, 2, 3, 5."	 Fibonacci numbers or sequence	Recursion	False
487	"In the second act of this opera, one character returns a gold coin to another. That act opens at the inn of Lillas Pastia and sees Dancaïre and Remendado inform the title character that they must dispose of their contraband. The ""Card Song"" plays in this opera's third act and is sung by the protagonist's friends Frasquita and Mercédès, after the male protagonist sings the ""Flower Song."" The ""Toreador"" song is sung by the bullfighter Escamillo, who is shot at by Don José before he stabs the title gypsy, who proclaims that ""love is a rebellious bird"" in her ""Habanera."" For 10 points, name this Georges Bizet opera about a Spanish gypsy cigarette girl."	Carmen	Carmen	True
488	This hero destroys a house with 150 women inside for their mutilation of Derbforgaill in one story. This figure is spared by Cú Roí in a beheading contest at Bricriu's feast, inspiring the tale of Gawain and the Green Knight. This figure kills Connla, his son by Aife, and he has an affair with the fairy Fand, sparking his wife Emer's jealousy. Originally known as Sétanta, this son of Lugh is trained by Scáthach but meets his demise after holding off Medb's army, years after he obtains the spear Gáe Bulg. For 10 points, name this hero of the Ulster Cycle of Irish myth who obtains his name by killing Culain's hound.	Cú Chulainn [accept Sétanta until mentioned]	Cú_Chulainn	True
489	Despite its name, Buridan's ass was first formulated in this man's On the Heavens. His works include a discussion of the essence of living things called On the Soul and a group of six works on logic known as the Organon. He also distinguished material, formal, efficient, and final causes. One of his works introduced ideas such as anagnorisis, hamartia and mimesis. Aside from the Poetics, he wrote a work which introduced the idea of the prime mover. For 10 points, name this founder of the Lyceum, a philosopher who taught Alexander the Great and wrote the Metaphysics.	Aristotle	Aristotle	True
490	"This author wrote about an innocent silk-winder whose journey connects the sordid lives of four others in a poem that coined the phrase ""God's in His heaven All's right with the world."" This author of Pippa Passes wrote a poem in which the title painter urges ""Grow old along with me! The best is yet to be."" This poet documented an Italian murder in his The Ring and the Book, and included ""Rabbi Ben Ezra"" among his dramatic monologues. One of this author's poems concerns a character who had a ""heart too soon made glad,"" and whose portrait by Fra Pandolf is ""painted on the wall."" For 10 points, name this English poet of ""My Last Duchess,"" the husband of Elizabeth Barret."	Robert Browning	My_Last_Duchess	False
491	This artist depicted Jesus holding the title fruit while in his mother's arms in Madonna of the Pomegranate. Another circular depiction of Jesus by this artist is Madonna of the Magnificat. He painted himself into his Adoration of the Magi but moved away from Christian themes in a work which is bordered on one side by a red-cloaked man about to pick an orange from a tree. Another work shows a nymph in the process of throwing a cloak over the nudity of the titular figure standing on a shell. For 10 points, name this creator of Primavera and The Birth of Venus.	Alessandro Botticelli	Jesus	False
492	"In one work, this author parodied the condescending Henry James as ""Mr. Nixon."" The title character of that work by this author writes ""medallions"" in an attempt to ""resuscitate the dead art of poetry."" Another poem by this man consists of the lines ""The apparition of these faces in the crowd; Petals on a wet, black bough."" This author of ""In a Station of the Metro"" and ""Hugh Selwyn Mauberley"" translated several works of the Chinese poet Li Po. This author included Chinese characters in a work that has ""Rock-Drill"" and ""Pisan"" sections and was largely written in an Italian jail. For 10 points, name this fascist sympathizer, an American modernist poet who wrote The Cantos."	Ezra Weston Loomis Pound	Li_Bai	False
493	This ruler set up vassal kings with the title Syenessis in Cilicia, and this ruler subjugated the Massagetai whose warrior queen Tomyris may have killed him. Harpagus defected to the army of this man, who won a victory over Nabonidus. This ruler won a battle against his grandfather, Astyages, at a site where he later founded the city of Pasargadae, and after the Battle of Thymbra he was able to capture Sardis from Croesus, the king of Lydia. This ruler freed the Jews from captivity when he conquered Babylonia, and he also overthrew the Medes. For 10 points, name this man who founded the Achaemenid Empire of Persia.	Cyrus the Great [or Cyrus II of Persia]	Cyrus_the_Great	True
494	The Askaryan effect can generate this phenomenon, whose alteration by a periodic grating is the Smith-Purcell effect. Hankel functions were utilized by Ilya Frank and Igor Tamm to develop a formula calculating the intensity of this effect. It occurs when an electromagnetic field in a local medium is disrupted, releasing photons that constructively interfere and is often considered an analogue of a sonic boom. For 10 points, name this effect named for its Russian discoverer which occurs when particles propagate faster than the local speed of light through a medium, generating an oft-seen blue color.	Cherenkov radiation /effect	Henry_Purcell	False
495	This book closes with a discussion of the strengths and weaknesses of Spanish and Swiss forces. Chapter twenty of this work concludes that the best fortress is to not be hated, while chapter nineteen examines the downfall of Roman emperors like Pertinax. Chapter eight praises the example of Agathocles, and another leader praised in this work is Cesare Borgia. Chapter eighteen of this work advises that a ruler should be both a fox and a lion and feign many good traits rather than have them. For 10 points, name this political tract which begins with a dedication to Lorenzo de' Medici, written by Niccolò Machiavelli.	The Prince [or Il Principe]	The_Prince	True
496	"One character in this novel has written a textbook which is used by Gaston Godin at the Beardsley College for Women. The narrator of this work believes he is being followed by an Aztec Red Convertible driven by Inspector Trappe. The narrator of this novel stays in the Enchanted Hunters Hotel after driving to Camp Q. In this novel, Charlotte is run over by a car after reading her husband's diary, and the title character eventually marries Dick Schiller after running away with by the playwright Clare Quilty. For 10 points, name this work in which Dolores Haze is the subject of Humbert Humbert's proclivity for ""nymphets,"" a novel by Vladimir Nabokov."	Lolita	Lolita	True
497	Charged particles that encounter a magnetic mirror experience this man's namesake acceleration, and the idea that the existence of advanced extraterrestrial life in the Milky Way would mean we should see signs of them such as spacecrafts is known as his paradox. The highest occupied state of a system of electrons at absolute zero is an energy named for this man. He and Dirac name a set of statistics describing gases made of protons, neutrons, or electrons, all of which are particles named for this man that possess half-integer spin, unlike bosons. For 10 points, name this Italian physicist who developed the first sustained nuclear  chain reaction.	Enrico Fermi [accept Fermi-Hart paradox until “this man” in first sentence]	Pauli_exclusion_principle	False
498	"One branch of this religion is derided as the ""farmer"" variety and places emphasis on the poem ""The Harmony of Difference and Sameness."" In addition to the Soto sect, this religion's sect includes one which focuses on the makyo hallucinations experienced prior to kensho, which might be brought about with excerpts from the Blue Cliff Record. This religion was brought to China by Bodhidharma, focuses on inquiry into paradoxical koans, and teaches the use of personal experience to bring about satori, or enlightenment. For 10 points, name this kind of Buddhism popular in Japan."	Zen Buddhism [or Chan; or Thiền; or Seon]	Japan	False
499	One character in this novel uses the deceitful governess Mrs. Younge to plan an elopement with Georgiana. One character in this work stays with the Gardiners while visiting London. This novel features the haughty Catherine de Bourgh, who supports the clergyman Mr. Collins, a man who marries the protagonist's best friend Charlotte Lucas. The protagonist's youngest sister Lydia causes a scandal by eloping with the villainous officer Mr. Wickam in this novel. The protagonist of this novel helps match up her sister Jane with Mr. Bingley, before finally accepting Fitzwilliam Darcy's second proposal. For 10 points, name this Jane Austen novel about Elizabeth Bennet.	Pride and Prejudice	Pride_and_Prejudice	True
500	"One poet from this country asked if the title animal would ""climb the walls"" in her poem ""Cat in an Empty Apartment."" This country is the setting for a Spanish play in which Basilio locks his son in a tower and convinces him that he only imagined actual events. This setting of Life is a Dream has a national epic sometimes titled Mister Thaddeus. One author from this country wrote a novel in which Nero burns down Rome for the sake of artistic accuracy and  Marcus Vinitius falls in love with the persecuted Christian Ligia. For 10 points, name this home of Quo Vadis author Henryk Sienkiewicz and Nobel Prize winning poet Wislawa Szymborska."	Republic of Poland	Nero	False
501	"This philosopher discussed the philosophy of science in Our Knowledge of the External World as a Field for Scientific Method in Philosophy. He coined the term ""logical atomism"" in a 1911 paper, and in ""The Ethics of War,"" he defended wars of principle and wars of colonization. He criticized Alexius Meinong in his essay ""On Denoting."" His other works include a History of Western Philosophy and the essay Why I Am Not a Christian. His namesake paradox debunked the naïve set theory of Gottlob Frege. For 10 points, name this philosopher who, with Alfred North Whitehead, wrote Principia Mathematica."	Bertrand Russell	Gottlob_Frege	False
502	Arms production in this ruler's lands was greatly improved by the introduction of blast furnaces there by Louis de Geer, and he maintained a shaky alliance with John George of Saxony. This ruler ended wars with his neighbors through the treaties of Knared and Stolbovo, although he was constantly at war with his cousin, Sigismund III of Poland. Axel Oxenstierna served as this ruler's chancellor, and this ruler defeated Count Tilly and Albrecht von Wallenstein in battles such as Breitenfeld and Lutzen. For 10 points, name this king, the father of Christina, who led Swedish forces in the Thirty Years' War.	Gustavus Adolphus of Sweden [or Gustav II Adolph]	Thirty_Years'_War	False
503	The inherited form of this disease has been linked to presenilin 1 and 2 genes, as well as the apoE4 gene on chromosome 19. Hyperphosphorylation of tau proteins figures into the tau hypothesis concerning the pathogenesis of this disease. A better-known hypothesis is the amyloid beta hypothesis, which suggests that the buildup of amyloid beta plaques is responsible. Perhaps the oldest theory concerning this disease is that it is caused by a shortage of acetylcholine in the brain. For 10 points, name this neurodegenerative disease primarily affecting the elderly whose symptoms include memory loss.	Alzheimer's Disease	Alzheimer's_disease	True
504	"This work describes a ""hung jury"" that ""threw potato salad at CCNY lecturers on Dadaism."" This poem's description of ""twenty five thousand mad comrades"" is reference to the population of Pilgrim State, a mental institution where one person mentioned in this poem received shock therapy. This poem's end references a ""sea-journey on the highway across America in tears."" This work repeats the word Moloch and tells Carl Solomon ""I'm with you in Rockland."" This poem opens with the line ""I saw the best minds of my generation, destroyed by madness, starving hysterical."" For 10 points, name this paragon of beat poetry by Allan Ginsberg. "	“Howl”	Howl	True
505	Male and Female, one of this artist's earliest works, may have been influenced by David Alfaro Siquieros, while his 1943 work The She-Wolf may have been influenced by Jungian psychology. One of his most famous works was done on an eight-foot by four-foot piece of fiberboard and prominently features layered yellow and brown streaks of paint. His 1952 painting Blue Poles and the aforementioned No. 5 both illustrate his technique of dripping paint directly onto his paintings. For 10 points, name this abstract expressionist who pioneered the technique of action painting.	Paul Jackson {Pollock}	The_Night_Watch	False
506	Unlike his predecessor, this ruler recognized the Parthian king Osroes I, and while he traveled abroad, this emperor employed the frumentarii and Marcius Turbo to prevent any coups. This emperor intended Lucius Aelius to become his successor, but outlived him, and following a proclamation by Akiba ben Joseph, this man faced the revolt of Simon Bar Kokhba in Judea. This ruler had his Greek lover Antinous deified, and adopted Antoninus Pius as his successor. For 10 points, name this third of the Five Good Emperors, the successor of Trajan, who ordered his namesake wall be built in England.	Publius Aelius Hadrianus	Trajan	False
507	A quantity not accounted for in this fundamental equation but considered in the Tafel equation is overpotential, and  assuming equilibrium yields an exponential form of this equation named for Butler and Volmer. The ionic flux carried by ionic species across a cell membrane is described in the Goldman-Hodgkin-Katz equation, which accurately describes electrodiffusion in this equation. It essentially states that potential is shifted by a term equal to RT over nF times the natural log of the reaction quotient. For 10 points, name this equation which determines the equilibrium reduction or oxidation potential of a half-cell in an electrochemical cell.	Nernst equation [accept Butler-Volmer equation before “Butler”]	Arrhenius_equation	False
508	The territories of this empire are referred to as the Twelve Doors, and its provincial governors were known as farins and farbas. A forty-four edict constitution, the Kouroukan Fouga, established this empire's legislature, the Gbara, and it grew out of the Kangaba state. This empire was established after a victory over the Sosso king Sumanguru at the Battle of Kirina, and one of its leaders devalued gold in Cairo on his way to Mecca. With capital at Niani, for 10 points, name this medieval empire of Western Africa whose rulers included Sundiata Keita and Mansa Musa.	Mali Empire [or Manding Empire; or Manden Kurufa]	Mali_Empire	True
509	In one novel by this author, the foundling daughter of a dress shop owner discovers her identical twin, confusing the weaver Hideo. This author also wrote a novel in which Uragami reports on a six month long match between the materialistic Otake and the spiritual Shusai. This author of The Old Capital wrote a novel in which the protagonist has a fling with his father's mistress Mrs. Ota. In addition to writing The Master of Go, this author wrote a novel in which the self appointed western ballet expert Shimamura has an affair with the geisha Komako. For 10 points, name this Japanese author of Thousand Cranes and Snow Country.	Kawabata Yasunari	Snow_Country	False
510	"In one work, this thinker notes that a ""veritable discursive explosion"" took off in the seventeenth century, leading him to question the idea that Victorians were ""imperial prudes."" In another work, this thinker considered the treatment of Robert-Francois Damiens in discussing an ""economy of power.""  He claimed that a ""great confinement"" marked a shift in the treatment of the insane, and he also theorized that doctors divorce patients' bodies from their humanity using the ""medical gaze."" This author of The Birth of the Clinic and Madness and Civilization also piggybacked on Jeremy Bentham's design for a prison in which all inmates can be seen by a single guard. For 10 points, name this philosopher who discussed the panopticon in his Disciple and Punish."	Michel Foucault	Jeremy_Bentham	False
511	This country's rock fortress of Sigiriya was built by Kassapa I and five caves are contained within its Golden Temple of Dambulla. Vijayabahu first declared his capital as this country's city of Polonnaruwa, and the Ruwanweli Saya Stupa is contained in this country's city of Anuradhapura. A chain of shoals known as Adam's Bridge lies to the northwest of this country and separates the Gulf of Mannar from the Palk Strait. This country's city of Trincomalee was home to its largest Dutch fort, and the Temple of the Tooth lies in its city of Kandy. For 10 points, name this Asian island country off the coast of India, whose capital is Kotte and largest city is Colombo.	Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka [or Sri Lanka Prajathanthrika Samajavadi Janarajaya; or Ceylon]	New_York_City	False
512	"A group of relaxing nude women have tea on the seashore in a painting by this man titled after a line in a Baudelaire poem. Another of his works is centered on a grandfather clock without hands and sees its title color often broken only by white lines. This artist of Luxe, Calme et Volupté and L'Atelier Rouge painted a portrait of his wife in which the titular ""Green Stripe"" bisects her face. A woman lays out dessert on a table in one of his paintings, while a painting commissioned by Sergei Shchukin borrowed a depiction of a group of  figures holding hands and cavorting around from one of his earlier paintings. For 10 points, identify this artist of Harmony in Red, La Danse, and Le Bonheur de Vivre, a leading Fauvist."	"Henri Matisse [accept Luxe, Calme et Volupté before ""this man""]"	Charles_Baudelaire	False
513	The long relaxation times observed in forbidden transitions from a triplet degeneracy for this quantity to a singlet state results in phosphorescence. For an electron, the gyromagnetic ratio relates this quantity to magnetic dipole moment, and operators for this observable can be expressed using Pauli matrices. The two beams of silver atoms observed in the Stern-Gerlach experiment correspond to opposite values of this quantity, and electrons in the same orbital must have opposite signs for this quantity according to the Pauli exclusion principle. For 10 points, identify this quantity simply defined as the intrinsic angular momentum of a particle, which can be plus or minus one-half for an electron.	"spin [accept spin quantum number until “observable”; accept phosphorescence until ""this quantity""]"	Stern–Gerlach_experiment	False
514	"This poet wondered if the title concept could ""govern in a thing so small"" in a poem about a white spider on a white flower holding a white moth. This poet admitted ""I have passed by the watchman on his beat and dropped my eyes, unwilling to explain"" in his tirza rima poem ""Acquainted With the Night."" This author of ""Design"" wrote that ""He is all pine and I am apple orchard"" in one work, and concluded another of his poems with the concession ""I have promises to keep, and miles to go before I sleep."" For 10 points, name American poet who wrote ""Stopping by Woods on a Snowy Evening"" and quoted the adage ""'Good fences make good neighbors"" in his poem ""Mending Wall."" "	Robert Frost	Elegy_Written_in_a_Country_Churchyard	False
515	"The Atharvashirsha is recited either 108 or 1000 times in the honor of this figure on Sankashti Chaturthis. The ""visarjan"" or the immersion of his idols in water occurs on the 14th day of the month of Bhadrapada. Idols of this deity often include his vehicle, a mouse, at his feet. Vyasa dictated the Mahabharata to this figure, who is frequently worshiped before undertaking important tasks. He once received a mango of wisdom and the status of ""elder"" by defeating his brother Kartikeya in a race. This figure received his most famous aspect after interceding between his parents, Parvati and Shiva, the latter of whom decapitated him. For 10 points, identify this remover of obstacles, an elephant-headed Hindu deity."	Ganesh [or Ganapati; or Vinayaka; or Lambodara; or Ekadanta]	Shiva	False
516	One atom of this element with three ether linkages reacts with an alkyl bromide in the Arbuzov reaction. In one compound, this element is bonded to an anisole group, double-bonded to a sulfur, and single bonded to two other sulfurs; that compound is called Lawesson's reagent. Its radioactive 32 isotope is used to label DNA hybridization probes for Southern blots, and it appears in namesake di-ester linkages running along the DNA backbone. Notably discovered by Henning Brand in his own urine, for 10 points, identify this element which has red and white allotropes and chemical symbol P.	Phosphorus [accept P until mentioned]	DNA	False
517	The fact that these entities are predicted to have greater-than-unity transmission probability at an infinite potential barrier is the original form of the Klein paradox. That paradox can be resolved in part by noting that, above a cutoff energy, these particles will react with a strong electric field to produce an electron and positron, a phenomenon known as pair production. Spontaneous emission of one of these particles occurs when an electron drops from a higher to a lower energy state, and the energy of one of these particles is given by Planck's constant times the speed of light over wavelength. For 10 points, name these particles, the quanta of light.	photons [accept gamma rays; prompt on spin-0 particles]	Electron	False
518	This painter depicted himself as a character from a Walter Scott novel in his Self-Portrait at Ravenswood. A woman holds out her arms imploringly in his Greece Expiring on the Ruins ofMissolonghi, and he depicted a scene from the Inferno in The Barque of Dante. He portrayed an Assyrian king's demise is The Death of Sardanapalus and the slaughter of Greeks by Ottoman troops in The Massacre at Chios. He is best known for a work in which the titular woman holds a musket in one hand and the French flag in the other. For 10 points, name this French Romanticist creator of Liberty Leading the People.	Ferdinand Victor Eugène Delacroix	Divine_Comedy	False
519	"It's not by Karl Marx, but this work contrasts ""value in use"" with ""value in exchange"" in the section ""Of the Origin and Use of Money."" It mentions that ""Brutus lent money in Cyprus at eight-and-forty per cent"" in a section discussing stock. Its first chapter popularized the phrase ""the division of labor"" and relied on the example of a pin factory, while a metaphor commonly associated with this work was reused from the author's earlier The Theory of Moral Sentiments. For 10 points, name this 1776 work that used the concept of the ""invisible hand"" to advocate a laissez-faire economic approach, a book by Adam Smith."	An Inquiry into the Nature and Causes of the Wealth of Nations	Adam_Smith	False
520	"This man served as a naval captain for the Rio Grande de Sul, and earned fame for his performance at the battle of Sant'Antonio in a war against Juan Manuel de Rosas. He would later come to defend the Papal States from an attack by the French, which included a failed charge on Janiculum Hill. On a notable journey, his forces took Milazzo and Calabria before emerging victorious at Volturno River; during that journey, this man subdued Naples and conquered the Kingdom of the Two Sicilies with his ""Army of Thousand."" For 10 points, identify this military leader during the Risorgimento who led the Redshirts."	Giuseppe Garibaldi	Rio_de_Janeiro	False
521	This sculptor depicted Nancy Cunard in a work often titled Sophisticated Young Lady. This sculptor of the jagged and triangular Le Coq and the oval-eyed Miss Pogany created an ensemble including Table of Silence in Targu Jiu, which also contains his 29 meter Endless Column. This sculptor of the phallic Princess X created a geometrically-simple relief version of The Kiss, but is best known for a marble and bronze series of figures whose heads and beaks are reduced to ovals. For 10 points, name this Romanian sculptor of the sleek Bird in Space.	Constantin Brâncuşi	Constantin_Brâncuși	False
522	According to religious literature, the official service during this holiday was prefaced by a seven-day sequestering in the Parhedrin Chamber. In orthodox circles, this holiday still includes the removal of the incense from the Holy of Holies and the pronunciation of the Tetragrammaton. The Al Cheit, Ashamnu, and closing Ne'ilah prayers are unique to this holiday, which sees the recitation of the Kol Nidre prayer on its eve, the reading of the Book of Jonah, and Vidui, or the public confession of sins. Occurring eight days after Rosh Hashanah, for 10 points, name this Jewish Day of Atonement.	Yom Kippur	Rosh_Hashanah	False
523	"This man showed that Lie groups could be approximated by finite groups and independently proved the central limit theorem using the Gaussian error function. His namesake ""degree"" is the level of unsolvability of a set of natural numbers, and this man posited that there is no way to determine whether a given program-input combination will terminate, thus showing the halting problem is undecidable. Computable functions can be computed by constructs like the ""busy beaver"" in a certain thesis named for Church and this man. For 10 points, name this British computer scientist, the namesake of a test of computer intelligence and a set of machines on which that test can be applied."	Alan Turing	Turing_machine	False
524	In one of this author's novels, Father Paez convinces Catalina that she has corrupted her soul by marrying the title character. King Philip II appears in this author's novel in which the eve of the new millennium sees an act of love between Celstina and Pollo Phoibe. This author of Terra Nostra included a frame story about a group of diggers discussing an exhumed corpse in a novel that ends with the revelation that the narrator is Ambrose Bierce. His most famous novel follows the titular corrupt politician on his deathbed as he reflects upon his life. For 10 points, name this Mexican author of The Old Gringo and The Death of Artemio Cruz.	Carlos Fuentes	Ambrose_Bierce	False
525	"The hexagon-impressed tiles on the arches in this painting are modeled on the ceiling of the Vatican Palace. A putto over the top of this painting bears the injunction ""causarum cognitio,"" or ""become knowledgeable of the causes."" The upper left and upper right of this painting include statues of Apollo and Athena, holding a lyre and a shield, respectively. Hypatia is depicted in a white robe in the lower left, while in the lower right a group of students gathers around Archimedes. The Timaeus and the Nicomachean Ethics are held by the two central figures, Plato and Aristotle. For 10 points, name this fresco by Raphael."	The School of Athens [or La Scuola di Atene]	The_School_of_Athens	True
526	"The MSW effect accounts for this particle's oscillations in matter as opposed to a vacuum, and its ""sterile"" variety is a strong candidate for dark matter composition. The Homestake experiment attempted to count these particles emitted due to fusion in the Sun, while Cowan and Reines reacted its antiparticles with protons to yield neutrons and beta plus particles to verify this particle's existence. Studied at the Super-Kamiokande facility, this particle was postulated to allow conservation of energy and momentum in beta decay, which involves its electron type. Also coming in muon and tauon varieties, for 10 points name this chargeless lepton whose name means ""small neutral one."""	neutrino	Electron	False
527	A 2001 J.C. Alvarez study investigated properties of aromatic polyamides containing this class of elements, and they are reacted with carboxylic acids in the Hunsdiecker reaction. The Finkelstein reaction involves the exchange of two atoms of these elements, and the enrichment of uranium via gaseous diffusion is accomplished using a molecule containing the simplest of these elements, whose synthesis won Henri Moissan the 1906 Nobel in Chemistry. Another member of this group is used as a mordant in Gram staining and has an important role in the thyroid gland. For 10 points, identify these highly reactive Group 17 elements that include iodine and fluorine.	halogens [accept Group 17 elements before mentioned]	Thyroid	False
528	"In Melville's Billy Budd, Captain Vere takes his nickname ""Starry"" from this author's poem ""Upon Appleton House."" He wrote that ""the Irish are ashamed / to see themselves in one year tamed"" in a ""Horatian Ode."" This poet also wrote a series of poems about a figure ""against Gardens"" and ""to the Glowworms."" This author of ""The Mower"" is most famous for a narrator who discusses his ""vegetable love"" growing until ""the conversion of the Jews,"" but regrets ""Time's winged chariot hurrying near."" For 10 points, name this British poet who penned the lines ""Had we but world enough and time, this coyness, lady, were no crime"" in ""To His Coy Mistress."""	Andrew Marvell	Billy_Budd	False
529	This nation's May Revolution of 1810 came about after the 1806 and 1807 invasions of its capital, and its independence was declared at the Congress of Tucuman. Bartolome Mitre led this nation during the War of the Triple Alliance, although it was ruled for four decades by the caudillo Juan Manuel de Rosas. Jorge Videla's government began the Dirty War in this nation, which served as the heart of the Viceroyalty of the Rio de la Plata before being liberated from Spain by Jose de San Martin. For 10 points, name this South American country which has been ruled by Eva and Juan Peron.	Argentina	Argentina	True
530	The Duane-Hunt law can be used to calculate the maximum frequencies observed from an inverse form of this effect. It was first seen in an experiment performed in a dark box, where the area between two brass conductors formed a spark gap, but the same could not be said for glass or quartz when UV light was shone on them. This effect is only observed in materials whose work function is less than the energy of incident particles, and the difference in those quantities gives the kinetic energy of particles emitted. Sometimes named for its discoverer Heinrich Hertz, for 10 points, name this effect in which photons striking a metal result in an emission of electrons.	photoelectric effect [or Hertz effect before mentioned]	Photoelectric_effect	True
531	"The Master of the Perfect World teaches the lute and zither to Han Fook in this man's short story ""The Poet."" One of this author's characters is sentenced to eternal life after stabbing Hermine in a house of mirrors known as the Magic Theater. One of his protagonists studies at Escholz and Waldzel before becoming a master in the Order of Castalia and earning the title Magister Ludi. Another of this author's creations leaves home with Govinda, learns the ways of love from Kamala, and meets the ferryman Vasudeva in a quest for enlightenment. For 10 points, name this German-Swiss creator of Harry Haller, Joseph Knecht and a title Buddha figure, the author of Steppenwolf, The Glass Bead Game, and Siddhartha."	Herman Hesse	The_Glass_Bead_Game	False
532	"One ballet by this composer includes the songs ""I ride an old paint,"" ""McLeod's Reel,"" and William H.  Stepp's version of ""Bonaparte's Retreat."" Another ballet by this composer uses a C# bass line in its ""Celebration Dance,"" which follows a ""Card Game at Night"" and a ""Gun Battle.""  This composer wrote a ballet whose suite does not include the ""Ranch House Party,"" but does include the ""Saturday Night Waltz"" and ""Hoe-Down"" movements. This composer used five variations on a Shaker theme for the melody ""Simple Gifts"" in a ballet set in Pennsylvania. For 10 points, name this composer of Rodeo, Billy the Kid, and Appalachian Spring."	Aaron Copland	The_Nutcracker	False
533	"This philosopher discussed the philosophy of Henri Bergson in The Winds of Doctrine, and held that to judge something as beautiful was to differentiate between fundamental ideals and transitory ones in The Sense of Beauty.  His discussed essence, matter, truth and spirit in The Realms of Being, and he wrote a five-volume work on the ""phases of human progress"" which notes that ""those who cannot remember the past are condemned to repeat it."" For 10 points, name this Spanish-American naturalist philosopher who wrote The Life of Reason and Skepticism and Animal Faith."	George Santayana [or Jorge Agustín Nicolás Ruiz de Santayana y Borrás]	Truth	False
534	"He wrote a political romance about a barmaid who refuses to kill the czar, but it only lasted a week on the stage. Before the failure of Vera, he wrote about Mrs. Cheveley's attempt to blackmail Sir Robert Chiltern in his play An Ideal Husband. He wrote that ""each man kills the thing he loves"" in a poem about of a prisoner who ""did not wear his scarlet coat,"" ""The Ballad of Reading Gaol."" He is better known for a novel centering on a painting by Basil Hallward and a play which includes the young Cecily Cardew and the friends Jack and Algernon. For 10 points, name the author of The Picture of Dorian Gray and The Importance of Being Earnest."	Oscar Fingal O'Flahertie Wills Wilde	The_Picture_of_Dorian_Gray	False
535	"This composer's only oratorio includes grieving Bethulian women and depicts Judith beheading Holofernes. This composer used solo violins in his collection La stravaganza and 1, 2, and 4 violins for various movements in his 12 concerto collection L'estro Armonico. This composer wrote ""Pleasure"" and ""The Hunt"" for another collection, The Contest Between Harmony and Invention, whose first four movements are accompanied by sonnets describing a barking dog, an icy wind, and a sleeping goatherd in a meadow. For 10 points, name this composer who wrote The Four Seasons."	Antonio Lucio Vivaldi	Violin_concerto	False
536	This author created the furniture dealer Gregory Solomon who brokers a deal between cop Victor Franz and and his brother in one work. Another of his plays takes place in the protagonist's head represented as a concentration camp as he relives memories of ex-wives Louise and Maggie. In addition to The Price and After the Fall, this playwright wrote about the discovery that Joe Keller sold defective airplane parts during WWII in All My Sons. In one of this author's plays, Abigail Williams tries to seduce John Proctor, and in another, the husband of Linda kills himself to give insurance money to Happy and Biff. For 10 points, name this playwright of Death of a Salesman and The Crucible.	Arthur Miller	Death_of_a_Salesman	False
537	"This author wrote a poem about a dog's collar inscribed with the phrase ""Pray tell me, sir, whose dog are you?"" Another brief work by this author concludes ""God said, ""Let Newton be!"" and all was light."" This poet concluded in one work that ""One truth is clear, whatever is, is right."" This author wrote ""To err is human, to forgive divine"" in his poem ""An Essay on Criticism."" This author of ""An Essay on Man"" also wrote a poem in which the spirits Umbriel and Ariel unsuccessfully prevent Lord Petre from cutting off a piece of Belinda's hair. For 10 points, name this British poet who used heroic couplets in mock epics like The Dunciad and The Rape of the Lock"	Alexander Pope 	The_Rape_of_the_Lock	False
538	One series created by this artist depicts a woman with a gambling addiction, a woman with obsessive envy, and a man suffering from delusions of military rank. That series of ten paintings of the insane includes a self-portrait called Portrait of a Kleptomaniac. This painter also created a work in which a Napoleonic soldier brandishes a sword atop a rearing horse, The Charging Chasseur. Another of his works includes a figure waving a flag in the top right, and depicts the suffering of the survivors of a shipwreck off the coast of Mauritania. For 10 points, name this French Romantic who painted The Raft of the Medusa.	Théodore Géricault	The_Raft_of_the_Medusa	False
539	"One movement of this work depicts a scene from the ballet Trilby and is followed by a depiction of a conversation between ""Two Jews: Rich and Poor."" In one movement in this work, the alto saxophone is played above a continuous bass, evoking a troubadour's song in front of ""The Old Castle."" 16th note tremolos are found in its ninth movement, inspired by a drawing of a large clock in the shape of Baba Yaga's ""Hut on Fowl's Legs."" Orchestrated by Ravel, this piece ends with a two-part rondo depicting ""The Great Gate of Kiev."" For 10 points, name this piano work originally composed by Modest Mussorgsky, a setting of various Viktor Hartmann artworks."	Pictures at an Exhibition [or Kartinki s vystavki]	Pictures_at_an_Exhibition	True
540	Spin foam serves as a model for 4-geometries used to dynamically observe the quantum form of this force. Mossbauer spectroscopy of an iron-57 gamma emitter was used to measure Doppler redshift associated with this force in the Pound-Rebka experiment, and two lead balls were used to construct a torsion balance to measure the magnitude of this force in the Cavendish experiment. Conceptualized by wells in spacetime, for 10 points, identify this weakest fundamental force that causes objects in the air to accelerate to Earth at 9.8 meters per second squared.	gravity [or gravitational force; accept equivalents]	Doppler_effect	False
541	The first king of this nation was not recognized by the pope until fifty years after his victory in the Battle of Ourique and his subsequent coronation, and the death of another of its monarchs in the Battle of Three Kings led to foreign occupation. In the eighteenth century, the Tavora Affair occurred in this nation, and was an attempt to lessen the power of the aristocracy by the Marquis de Pombal. This country loosened control on its colonies after the Carnation Revolution, which brought the end of Antonio Salazar's Estado Novo. For 10 points, name this nation which had to rebuild after the 1755 earthquake which destroyed its capital, Lisbon.	Portugal	Lisbon	False
542	Napoleon's theorem concerns the use of four of these figures to construct a fifth with special properties, and a similar method is used to locate the Fermat point for this shape. Nine significant locations on it are traversed by the nine-point circle, the center of which lies on an Euler line in this shape. Ceva's theorem concerning this shape states that lines drawn from a vertex to a side meet under certain conditions, and another statement about it allows its area to be determined from side length and semiperimeter alone. For 10 points, name this simple shape, whose area is calculable by Heron's formula and whose angles add up to 180 degrees.	triangle	Pierre_de_Fermat	False
543	"One character created by this author has a heart attack while playing in a cimbalom band after organizing the poorly attended Ride of the Kings. A character in another of this author's novels abides by the ""rule of threes"" for committing infidelity and is given the epitaph ""He wanted the Kingdom of God on Earth"" after dying in a car accident while working at a dairy collective. Ludvik Jahn writes ""Optimism is the opium of the people!"" on a postcard, resulting in his expulsion from the Communist Party in this author's The Joke. For 10 points, name this Czech author who wrote about the photographer Tereza's relationship with the Tomas in The Unbearable Lightness of Being."	Milan Kundera	The_Unbearable_Lightness_of_Being	False
544	"He took issue with word-for-word translations in Contra Errores Graecorum and distinguished between the titular people's knowledge of God and what can be known by taking Christian beliefs into account in Summa Contra Gentiles. This man's most famous work asserts that all knowledge is abstract and that perfect happiness can only come from contemplating God. That work also includes a section in which he uses Aristotle's four causes to advance five arguments for the existence of God, who is called the ""first mover"" and ""first efficient cause."" For 10 points, name this philosopher who wrote the Summa Theologica."	Saint Thomas Aquinas	Summa_Theologica	False
545	The torsin protein, a member of the AAA protein family, is crucial for carrying out the role of this molecule, which tightly binds to the N-terminal domains of DnaK and Hsp70. In order for tRNA to be aminoacylated, this molecule must first react with free amino acid, and seven of these molecules can bind to the GroEL/GroES chaperone complex. It is the product of an enzyme containing F0 and F1 subunits that harness a proton gradient produced by the electron transport chain. Produced by a namesake synthase, about 36 of these molecules are generated per glucose entering cellular respiration. For 10 points, identify this energy-storing molecule, which consists of three phosphates bonded to an adenosine sugar.	ATP [or adenosine triphosphate]	Transfer_RNA	False
546	"This philosopher insisted that enjoyment is subjective in Observations on the Feeling of the Beautiful and Sublime. He proposed an early version of democratic peace theory in his essay, ""Perpetual Peace."" He described the title concept as ""man's emergence from his self-imposed immaturity"" in ""What Is Enlightenment?"" He was the first philosopher to delineate the difference between analytic and synthetic propositions, and in his Groundwork of the Metaphysics of Morals, he introduced the concept of the categorical imperative. For 10 points, name this author of the Critique of Pure Reason."	Immanuel Kant	Critique_of_Pure_Reason	False
547	During his last night in Ossenburger Hall, this character reads Isak Dinesen's Out of Africa. Acquaintances that he makes include a nun with whom he discusses Romeo and Juliet. His voyeurism at the Edmont Hotel results in his seeing a transvestite and a couple that spit their drinks at each other. He backs out of a tryst with the prostitute Sally, and asks where the ducks in Central Park go during the winter. Amidst his wandering, he recalls his relationships with Jane Gallagher and Sally Hayes while reflecting on the suicide of James Castle and the death of his younger brother Allie. For ten points, name this main character of J.D. Salinger's The Catcher in the Rye.	Holden Caulfield [accept either name]	Romeo_and_Juliet	False
548	The enantioselective reduction of these compounds by a bicyclic boron-containing proline derivative in the presence of diborane was pioneered by Corey, Bakshi, and Shibata. A hydroxyl aryl version of this functionality is produced in the Fries rearrangement. When acting on a secondary but not a primary alcohol, the Jones reagent produces this functionality. In the presence of acid or base, it forms a tautomer with enol, and in solution with ammonium silver nitrate, this compound fails to produce a precipitate. Thus, it has a negative result in the Tollens test. For 10 points, name this functional group, consisting of two alkyl groups attached to a carbonyl group, the simplest of which is acetone.	ketone [prompt on “carbonyl”]	Acetone	False
549	The protagonist of this novel forgets to turn off his scent tap before flying by helicopter to Malpais. Other characters in this work include a Polish boy named Reuben Rabinovitch, who learns English in his sleep. Technologies introduced in this work include Malthusian drills, Podsnap's technique, and Bokanovsky's human egg fertilization process, which is used to distinguish between Alphas and Epsilons. When Lenina brings John the Savage back to London, he gains instant celebrity. This novel is set in 632 Year of our Ford, and ends when Mustafa Mond exiles Helmholtz  and Bernard  Marx. For ten points name this dystopian novel by Aldous Huxley.	Brave New World  	Brave_New_World	True
550	"The first of this composer's four piano trios notably opens in B major and ends in B minor. The A-E-F motif dominates the Double Concerto in A minor of this composer, who created a work whose movements begin ""for all flesh is grass"" and ""blessed are they that mourn,"" a seven-movement piece with text from the Luther Bible. This man sought to balance his Tragic Overture with a joking work with the ""Fuschlied"" and ""Gaudeamus igitur"" songs, which celebrate student life at the University of Breslau. For 10 points, name this German composer of the German Requiem and Academic Festival Overture. "	Johannes Brahms 	1812_Overture	False
551	"One character in this novel tells a story in which the tortoise loses the smoothness of his shell after being invited to a feast by the birds. Reverend Smith replaces the tolerant Mr. Brown in this novel. The protagonist of this work wrestles with Amalinze the Cat, and is given custody of Ikemefuna. An exploding gun causes the protagonist of this work to accidentally kill a boy. Enoch unmasks the egwugwu causing the rampage and eventual suicide of the protagonist of this work. This novel takes place in Umuofia and takes its title from the Yeats poem ""The Second Coming."" For 10 points name this novel about the Igbo Okonkwo, a work of Chinua Achebe."	Things Fall Apart	Things_Fall_Apart	True
552	"The Voluspa states that this figure and his wife lie ""under a grove of hot springs,"" and later refers to him as the brother of Byleist. This figure killed a man in the form of an otter, paying the weregild for that death with gold stolen from Andvari.  This killer of Fimafeng was punished with the death of his son Narfi, whose entrails were used to bind him to a tree.  This god writhes in agony as a snake drips venom on his face, which occurs whenever Sigyn has to empty the poison bowl. This god arms Hoder with a sharpened sprig of mistletoe, which is used to kill Balder. The father of Hel, for 10 points, name this trickster god of Norse mythology."	Loki 	Baldr	False
553	The protagonist of this novel learns that one character is a printer named Gerard Duval after finding his wallet. In one scene in this novel, three characters swim naked across a canal carrying only boots full of food. Earlier, the main character is attacked by a bull mastiff when he and Kat steal a goose. This novel's brief final section features an abrupt shift to the third person, and earlier in this novel, Mueller takes a pair of boots from the dying Himmerich. The protagonist of this novel helps beat up Himmelstoss, the drill sergeant who trained Paul Baumer's squad before it was sent to the trenches. For 10 points, name this World War I novel by Erich Maria Remarque. 	All Quiet on the Western Front [or Im Westen nichts Neues] 	Erich_Maria_Remarque	False
554	"One opera by this composer begins with a prelude repeating ""Open are the double doors of the horizon/Unlocked are its bolts."" That opera by this composer contains a second-act recitation of Psalm 104, following a duet in which the title character reads love poems to his wife, who is in a lower register. Another opera by this composer contains an electric organ accompanying repeating countdowns as well as ""All Men are Equal"" and ""Mr. Bojangles"" in its first ""Trial,"" which precedes the second of the five ""knee plays."" For 10 points, name this minimalist composer of Satyagraha, Akhenaten, and Einstein on the Beach."	Philip Morris Glass	Albert_Einstein	False
555	One of this author's protagonists helps William T. Knife market the caffeinated beverage Okey-Dokey. That satire of the fundraising culture, Gideon Plainish, features a character who manages the career of the evangelist Sharon Falconer in another of this author's novels. This author set his novel about the Jolly Seventeen's conflict with Carol Kennicott in the town of Gopher Prairie. Another town created by this author is in the fictional state of Winnemac, and is home to the car salesman Samuel Dodsworth, the preacher Elmer Gantry, and the real estate agent George Babbit. For 10 points, name this author of Main Street.	Sinclair Lewis	Gideon_v._Wainwright	False
556	Honey-colored saffron clothes were worn by girls dressed as arktoi in the Brauronia, which was a celebration of this deity. This deity ran between Otus and Ephialtes, causing them to kill each other, and in another story, she substituted a deer for Iphigenia in the altar of sacrifice. King Oeneus forgot to worship this goddess, who angrily sent the Calydonian boar to ravage the land. After one of her attendants fathered Arcas, she transformed Callisto into a bear, but her most vengeful act was slaughtering the children of Niobe, who insulted her mother Leto. For 10 points, name this sister of Apollo and goddess of the hunt.	Artemis	Artemis	True
557	This philosopher wrote a work addressed to Philipp van Limborch which argued that neither atheists nor the Catholic Church should be tolerated, A Letter Concerning Toleration. His other works include The Reasonableness of Christianity and the anonymously published Two Treatises on Government. In Some Thoughts Concerning Education, he claimed that man is made what he is through education, extending the idea that the mind is a tabula rasa which he introduced in his most famous work. For 10 points, name this Enlightenment philosopher who wrote An Essay Concerning Human Understanding.	John Locke	An_Essay_Concerning_Human_Understanding	False
558	This author wrote of a student whose betrayal of Victor Haldin allows him to infiltrate a group of revolutionaries. Mr. Verloc tries to make Stevie bomb Greenwich observatory in another of his works. In one novel by this man, Montero's army invades the town of Sulaco after the title character takes over Gould's silver mining operation in the fictional country Costaguana. One of this author's protagonists becomes a leader on the island of Patusan in a novel narrated by this author's recurring character Charlie Marlow. For 10 points, name this author of The Secret Agent and Nostromo who wrote about the sinking of the Patna in Lord Jim and the search for Kurtz in the Congo in The Heart of Darkness.	Joseph Conrad	Heart_of_Darkness	False
559	"This man wrote a cantata about a creature from Persian myth that tries to regain entrance into heaven. This composer wrote a set of variations on his imaginary friend Meta Abegg. This composer wrote his only cello concerto in A minor and dedicated to Frédéric Chopin his Kriesleriana. One composition by this man contains quotations of ""Grandfather's Dance"" and he quoted from that work in his later piece Carnaval. Of this man's four symphonies, the third opens powerfully like a fanfare in E-flat major and his first was written the year after he married Clara. For 10 points, name this German composer of the Spring and Rhenish symphonies.  "	Robert Alexander Schumann	Frédéric_Chopin	False
560	"This philosopher advocated the adoption of a federal system in Considerations on the Government of Poland. He contrasted the natural and physical types of the title concept in his Discourse on Inequality. He also wrote an epistolary novel subtitled The New Heloise, and a treatise dealing with the education of the titular boy, Emile. His most famous work discusses a society controlled by the ""general will"" of its people and asserts that ""man is born free, but is everywhere in chains."" For 10 points, name this French philosopher who wrote The Social Contract."	Jean-Jacques Rousseau	The_Social_Contract	False
561	"This composer alternated E-flat major and minor chords to simulate questions and answers in the last of his three piano preludes. Walter Damrosch commissioned a piano concerto in F of this composer., who used bongos and maracas in his Cuban Overture and included four taxi horns in his tone poem An American in Paris. He composed the aria ""Summertime"" for a work set in Catfish Row with his brother Ira, and began another work with a clarinet glissando. For 10 points, name this American jazz-influenced composer of Porgy and Bess and Rhapsody in Blue."	George Gershwin	Rhapsody_in_Blue	False
562	"In this work, the protagonist's uncle introduces him to Huld, whose nurse becomes the protagonist's lover. After the protagonist encounters a tradesman named Block, he is unable to sway the Whipper from beating two agents. Despite the nosy Assistant Manager, the protagonist manages to obtain the address of Titorelli, a painter of the Magistrates who sells the protagonist a set of identical landscapes. The protagonist of this novel describes his own death as ""Like a Dog!"" when he is stabbed by two men. For 10 points, name this work about the bank clerk Joseph K., an unfinished novel by Franz Kafka about the title mysterious legal proceeding."	The Trial [or Der Prozess]	The_Trial	True
563	In electrodynamics, this effect leads to the formation of an instantaneous voltage called the Christoffel voltage, and cyclostrophic flow sees zero contributions from friction and this effect. The ratio of net acceleration of a fluid to acceleration due to this effect is the Rossby number. Its acceleration is given by negative two times the cross product between the angular velocity of the system and the velocity of the particle. It is the cause of the rotation of sunspots and creates geostrophic winds. This effect generally manifests in the deflection of an object because of the Earth's rotation. For 10 points, name this effect that does not actually change the direction of water swirling in toilet bowls.	Coriolis effect	Acceleration	False
564	The Karl Fischer test is an example of this procedure used to determine water content in a sample. The amount of surfactant needed to achieve stabilization of a colloid can be determined by the zeta potential type of this process, and EDTA is commonly used to perform its namesake action on metal ions in solution in the compleximetric type of this process. Methyl orange can be used in the chemical or acid-base type of this technique, which employs that and other indicators to observe the equivalence point of a sample. For 10 points, name this laboratory technique  employed to determine the concentration of an unknown solution by slowly dripping in some solution of known concentration.	titration	Titration	True
565	"In homage to Watson and Crick, this man painted Galacidalacidesoxiribonucleicacid, part of his ""nuclear mysticism"" period that also included such works as Crucifixion (Corpus Hypercubus). He depicted several Venus de Milos wearing different colored skirts in The Hallucinogenic Toreador. He created a work titled after ""the disintegration of"" his most famous work, in addition to an optical illusion involving the title pachyderms, Swans Reflecting Elephants. For 10 points, name this Catalan surrealist who painted some melting watches in The Persistence of Memory."	Salvador Domingo Felipe Jacinto Dalí i Doménech	The_Persistence_of_Memory	False
566	"This poet wrote about ""the one landscape that we, the inconstant ones, Are consistently homesick for"" in one work. In another of this poet's works, ""the thin-lipped armorer, Hephaestos"" carves a martial scene instead of a bucolic one into the title object. This author of ""In Praise of Limestone"" and ""The Shield of Achilles"" began one poem in ""one of the dives, On Fifty-second Street."" This poet opened his ""Funeral Blues"" with ""Stop all the clocks, cut off the telephone,"" and wrote about a ""delicate ship"" ignoring ""a boy falling out of the sky"" in a poem based on a Breughel painting. For 10 points, name this author of ""September 1, 1939"" and ""Musee des Beaux Arts."""	Wystan Hugh Auden	Achilles	False
567	This god's wife is the mother of the snowshoe god Ullr. In one story, this god prevents the marriage of his daughter Thrudd by posing a series of riddles to the dwarf Alvis. This god's servant Thialfi loses a footrace to Thought in the land of Utgard Loki. This god dresses up as Freya to retrieve an object stolen from him by Thrym. The sons of Ivaldi make golden hair to replace the lock stolen from this god's wife Sif. This god's chariot is pulled by a pair of goats, and he will take nine steps after killing but being poisoned by the Midgard Serpent at Ragnarok. For 10 points, name this Norse wielder of the hammer Mjollnir, the god of thunder.	Thor	Loki	False
568	Bentonite acts as an extreme barrier for this class of substances, limiting their mobility due to ultrafiltration. The zeta potential describes electric potential at the double layer interfaces seen in this class of substances. Their stable formation, termed peptization, is opposed by the formation of large clusters of particles in these systems, a process known as flocculation. The Tyndall effect describes light scattering through this type of substance, which is characterized by separate continuous and dispersed phases. For 10 points, name this type of chemical mixture where particles of one substance are dispersed throughout another, examples of which include foams, gels, and emulsions.	colloids	Colloid	True
569	Gerrit Lundens' copy of this painting in London's National Gallery reveals its pre-cropped state, in which the large arch in the background was closer to the center. A partially out-of-frame man beats a drum on the extreme right of this painting, while in the background a man in armor holds an orange and blue flag. The two main figures are a man dressed in yellow and carrying an ensheathed sword, and a man in a red sash, while many of the background figures are holding pikes. For 10 points, name this painting depicting the company of Frans Banning Cocq, a work by Rembrandt.	The Night Watch [or De Nachtwacht; accept The Company of Frans Banning Cocq and Willem van Ruytenburch before mentioned]	The_Night_Watch	True
570	"This author mentions ""Callimachus, Who handled marble as if it were bronze,"" in a poem that includes ""a long legged bird"" and ""Two Chinamen, behind them a third"" inscribed into the title gem. The narrator of another of his poems wishes for ""such a form as Grecian goldsmiths make,"" and asks ""sages standing in God's holy fire"" to ""be the singing-masters"" of his soul after leaving a place that is ""no country for old men."" This author of ""Lapis Lazuli"" also asked ""what rough beast"" ""Slouches towards Bethlehem to be born"" in a poem in which ""Things fall apart; the centre cannot hold."" For 10 points, name this Irish poet of ""Sailing to Byzantium,"" and ""The Second Coming."""	William Butler Yeats	The_Second_Coming_(poem)	False
571	"One character in this novel annoys the protagonist with a story about how he used to walk around with crab apples in his mouth. One character creates panic by saying only ""T.S. Elliot"" into the phone after calling another character, and Corporal Popinjay is imprisoned for being overly specific at Clevinger's trial before the Action Board.  Only those with temperatures higher than 102 degrees are treated by Doc Daneeka in Pianosa, and ""M&M Enterprises"" buys all the Egyptian cotton in the world under the treasonous war profiteer Milo Minderbinder. For 10 points name this novel in which Yossarian is in the 256th airborne as a bombardier under Major Major Major Major, a work of Joseph Heller."	 Catch-22	Catch-22	True
572	The MacMillan catalyst serves to accelerate an asymmetric version of this reaction, and Seelig showed that this reaction could be catalyzed in vitro by certain ribozymes. The Woodward-Hoffmann rules were first applied to this reaction, and in order for it to occur, one of its reactants must be in s-cis form. Driven by the conversion of pi bonds into more stable sigma bonds, this reaction almost always favors the endo product, and its simplest form is the reaction of ethene with butadiene to yield cyclohexene.  For 10 points, name this doubly-eponymous reaction, a 4+2 cycloaddition between a diene and dienophile.	 Diels-Alder reaction	Diels–Alder_reaction	False
573	"This poet wrote that to ""get with child a mandrake root"" is more likely than to find a ""woman true, and fair"" in one poem. This author delivered a deathbed sermon about ""Death's Duel"" and wrote that ""virtuous men pass mildly away"" in a poem that uses a compass metaphor to connect him to his love. This author of the lines ""Go and Catch a Falling Star"" tells the listener to ""mark this"" titular creature that ""suck'd me first, and now sucks thee"" in his poem ""The Flea."" This poet coined the phrase ""For whom the bell tolls"" in his Meditation XVII and wrote the sonnet ""Death Be Not Proud."" For 10 points name this English poet of ""A Valediction Forbidding Mourning."""	John Donne	Elegy_Written_in_a_Country_Churchyard	False
574	One of this artist's works was commissioned by Edward Coates, who later replaced it with a work entitled The Pathetic Song to avoid the controversy caused by the original work's portrayal of six nude men. That work, The Swimming Hole, was created fourteen years after this artist's Max Schmitt in a Single Scull. In his most famous painting, a woman recoils in disgust as the titular figure demonstrates a surgery at the Jefferson Medical College. That painting is often paired with this artist's The Agnew Clinic. For 10 points, name this American painter of The Gross Clinic.	Thomas Cowperthwait {Eakins}	The_Gross_Clinic	False
575	"In one work, this philosopher discusses the meaning of the word ""slab"" as told by a builder to his assistant.  G.E. Moore provided the material for the ""two hands"" argument used in this philosopher's On Certainty. He argued that the inability to feel someone else's pain has to do with grammar, not metaphysics, in The Blue and Brown Books. He dismissed the possibility of a private language using his beetle-in-a-box thought experiment in Philosophical Investigations, and wrote a work which concludes that ""what we cannot speak of we must pass over in silence."" For 10 points, name this author of Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus."	Ludwig Wittgenstein	Tractatus_Logico-Philosophicus	False
576	One character in this novel adorns a cave with marble after burying the protagonist's severed head in it. The protagonist of this novel steals Voltaire books from a library, and his friend Foque offers him a position in his lumber business. The corrupt poorhouse official Valenod writes an anonymous letter that results in the protagonist losing his tutoring job. After he leaves the seminary at Besancon, the protagonist of this work has his marriage to the wealthy Mathilde de la Mole ended when he shoots at Madame de Renal after she reveals his affair with her. For 10 points, name this novel in which the Napoleonic ambition of Julien Sorel results in his downfall, a novel by Stendhal.	The Red and the Black [or Le Rouge et le noir]	The_Red_and_the_Black	True
577	"Leo Strauss wrote a book on this thinker's ""critique of religion,"" while Lewis Feuer wrote on this man ""and the rise of liberalism."" He wrote a Treatise on the Emendation of the Intellect and he argued that Ezra, not Moses, was the primary author of the Pentateuch in his Theological-Political Treatise. Another work contains a section entitled ""Of Human Bondage,"" and decries the anthropomorphizing of God after proving through a series of propositions that God is the only substance in the universe. For 10 points, name this pantheist philosopher who wrote Ethics."	Baruch Spinoza [or Benedictus de Spinoza]	Moses	False
578	This nation's western coast is home to the Arakan Mountains, which extend northward into its state of Chin. This nation's southernmost reaches are the site of the Mergui archipelago, and its eastern region is dominated by the Shan Plateau. This nation is the home to most of the Mon people, whose historical capital of Thaton lies near the mouth of the Salween River. This nation's other major river joins the Chindwin near the city of Mandalay and eventually forms a massive delta at the Andaman Sea. The Irrawaddy River is found in, for 10 points, what Southeast Asian nation, whose capital was officially moved to Naypyidaw from Yangon in 2005.	Burma [or Myanmar]	Irrawaddy_River	False
579	"One live album by this artist is titled for the Rodgers & Hart showtune My Funny Valentine. One group led by  this man performed the first two renditions of Monk's ""Straight, No Chaser,"" and that sextet went on to release Porgy and Bess as part of this artist's collaboration with Gil Evans. One of this man's albums contains ""The Pan Piper"" and ""Concierto de Aranjuez,"" and ""Cannonball"" Adderley and Herbie Hancock played in his quintets. This artist released Bitches Brew and Sketches of Spain, and included ""Flamenco Sketches,"" ""Freddie Freeloader,"" and ""So What"" on his best known album. For 10 points, name this jazz trumpeter who released Kind of Blue. "	Miles Dewey Davis III	Kind_of_Blue	False
580	Libriform fibers are long pit-containing cells found throughout this tissue, and perforation plates found at the ends of this tissue can be described as simple, foraminate, or scalariform. The primary type of this tissue is located closest to the pith, and it is made up of tracheid vessels in most conifers with trachea elements performing most of its function. This tissue must use the evaporation of water at mesophyll cells in leaves and negative back-pressure at the roots to carry out its function in a process called transpirational pull, which allows water and minerals to travel up through plants.  For 10 points, identify this dead vascular tissue in plants that functions differently from phloem.	xylem	Phloem	False
581	"This poet used the ""road to the contagious hospital under the surge"" as the setting of the title poem in his collection Spring and All.  This author of Asphodel, that Greeny Flower included ""Hunters in the Snow"" and ""Peasant Wedding"" in his collection Pictures from Brueghel and Other Poems. He also wrote In the American Grain as a lead up to his five-book epic about a New Jersey city.  This poet justified having ""eaten the plums that were in the icebox"" because they were ""delicious, so sweet, and so cold"" in his ""This is Just to Say."" For 10 points, name this author of Patterson, a pediatrician and poet who wrote about an object ""glazed with rain"" upon which so much depends in ""The Red Wheelbarrow."""	William Carlos Williams	William_Carlos_Williams	True
582	"A 24 bar Overtura opens a work split from this man's thirteenth string quartet, his Grosse Fugue. Variations by this composer include a set of twelve for cello and piano on Handel's ""See the Conquering Hero Comes"" and a set of thirty-three on a waltz by the Austrian music publisher Diabelli. One work by this composer contains a subject in E-flat minor in its Grave introduction, and an oft-played piano work by this composer opens with E-D sharp-E-D-sharp-E-B-D natural-C. For 10 points, name this composer of the Moonlight Sonata, Für Elise, and the Choral Symphony."	Ludwig van Beethoven 	Piano_sonata	False
583	The completely black bull Mnewis was regarded as an aspect of this god, who was served by the deity Mehen, and this god is the principal offspring of the ocean goddess Nu. This figure's children represent dryness and moisture, and his ba was the Bennu bird. He saved mankind from annihilation by creating 7000 jugs of beer mixed with pomegranate juice to distract the bloodthirsty Sekhmet. Syncretized with Horakhty, this god was the grandfather of Geb and Nut and father of Shu and Tefnut, and he staves off Apep every day while riding his barge. For 10 points, name this Egyptian god often combined with Atum and Amun, the chief solar deity.	  Ra [or Re; accept anything that sounds like “rah” or “ray”]	Ra	True
584	This artist's works include portraits of the writer Joachim Gasquet and the journalist Gustave Geffroy. He painted a takeoff on Manet in which a white female is disrobed by a black male while a seated man watches,	Paul Cézanne	Édouard_Manet	False
585	This entity made a military pact known as the Tohopesate, and it was harassed by forces of Klaus Stortebeker, the leader of the Likedeelers, which were successors of pirates known as the Victual Brothers. After the humiliating Peace of Vordingborg, this entity defeated Valdemar IV of Denmark and forced him to sign the Treaty of Stralsund. The Peterhof in Novgorod and Steelyard in London are notable examples of Kontores established by this polity, although its power faded as the Swedish Empire lessened the importance of cities such as Visby and Lubeck. For 10 points, name this Northern European trading league which controlled the Baltic Sea.	Hanseatic League [or Hansa]	Hanseatic_League	True
586	In one of her novels, characters based on actual people include the alcoholic professor Wunsch and Dr. Howard Archie, and the novel opens in Moonstone, Colorado, where the mandolin player Spanish Johnny lives. A protagonist of this author is moved by a Julie Breton painting and has an epiphany at Panther Canyon. In addition to the story of aspiring opera star Thea Kronborg, this author wrote about Joseph Vaillaint's journey through the New Mexican desert with Jean Latour, and Carl Linstrum's love for Alexandra Bergson. For 10 points, name this writer of Song of the Lark, Death Comes For the Archbishop, and O Pioneers!	Willa Cather	Miss_Julie	False
587	One early victory for this man came against his grandfather at Echbatana, and this man's general Gubaru conquered Opis, giving him control of a vast canal system. He suffered a draw in the Battle of Pteria against Croesus, but managed to catch up to him near Sardis and soundly defeated him at Thymbra. He promulgated the Edit of Restoration, which ended the Babylonian captivity of Jews. He was succeeded by Cambyses II after his death near the Syr Darya during a campaign towards Egypt. For 10 points, name this Achaemanid ruler and conqueror from Persia, whose namesake cylinder is one of the earliest charters of human rights.	Cyrus the Great [or Cyrus II; or Cyrus the Elder]	Cyrus_the_Great	True
588	"In one of her works, a flat tire causes a character to announce, ""Pass the butter to the victim,"" and Mrs. May is ultimately killed by an animal on the farm. In addition to ""Greenleaf,"" this author wrote a short story in which a boy knocks over a woman and breaks her ankle, and his grandfather Mr. Head denies being related to avoid paying the medical bill. One of her novels is about the teenage preacher from Powderhead, Francis Marion Tarwater, while another features Enoch Emery's theft of ""the new jesus"" and the fake blind man Asa Hawks. For 10 points, name this writer of The Violent Bear It Away and ""Good Country People,"" who created Hazel Motes in Wise Blood."	Flannery O'Connor	Jesus	False
589	"The aria ""Di provenza il mar"" is sung by one character in this opera to comfort his son, whose love for the title character was first admitted to her by Gaston?de Letori?es in Act I. Later, the title character's new husband, the Baron Dauphol, becomes infuriated with the gambling successes of Giorgio Germont's son, who misunderstands the title character's warnings and storms off.  Earlier, the duet ""Libiamo"" is sung at the opening party by Alfredo and the object of his affection, the titular courtesan. For 10 points, name this opera in which Violetta eventually dies of consumption, a work by Giuseppe Verdi."	La Traviata	La_traviata	True
590	He killed the demon Puloman and married that figure's daughter. He aborted Diti's fetus and broke it into forty-nine parts, and each piece grew into the Maruts. He makes his home in Svarga, and in one story he learns that every previous holder of his name has been turned into an ant. After he is caught having an affair with Ahalya, Maharishi cursed him with vaginas all over his body. In preparation for a battle, he drank a huge amount of soma and destroyed ninety-nine different fortresses; he fought in order to restore water to the world. He rides on the back of the white elephant named Airavata, and he wields the thunderbolt Vajra. For 10 points, name this Vedic god of thunder.	Indra	Indra	True
591	For a black hole, this quantity is calculated as Boltzmann's constant times the area divided by 4 times the square of the Planck length. The Tsallis variety of it relates it to non-extensivity, and the Shannon type is used in information theory. It can be calculated for a monatomic ideal gas in the Sackur-Tetrode equation, and it is the negative derivative with respect to temperature of Helmoltz Free Energy.  Its discontinuous nature in mixing was the subject of the Gibbs paradox, and its tendency to increase is the subject of the Second Law of Thermodynamics. For 10 points, name this quantity symbolized S, a measure of disorder.	Entropy	Boltzmann_constant	False
592	"Edmund White's Hotel de Dream fictionalizes this author writing his lost novel about a male prostitute, supposedly titled Flowers of Asphalt. He described a man eating his own heart in the poem ""In the Desert,"" from The Black Rider and Other Lines, and he began a short story with ""None of them knew the color of the sky."" His most famous character dies in a barn fire in ""The Veteran,"" a sequel to a work where that character watched Jim Conklin die in the woods and only received the title mark by accident, from a fellow soldier. For 10 points, name this author of ""The Open Boat"" and a novel about teenage soldier Henry Fleming, The Red Badge of Courage."	Stephen Crane	The_Red_Badge_of_Courage	False
593	"Among the early tribes that lived here were the Elmyians. It was the site of three namesake wars in the fifth and fourth centuries BCE, the last of which was between Agathocles and Hanno the Navigator, and under Roman rule it was briefly governed by the corrupt Gaius Verres. One of its notable Norman rulers was known as ""Roger"" of this place, and in the thirteenth century, it witnessed a revolt against Charles I and a massacre of Frenchmen that began just before Easter services. When he conquered this area, its Ferdinand I renamed his former holdings as the ""Kingdom of the Two"" of them. For 10 points, name this Greek-colonized Italian island, the birthplace of the Mafia."	Sicily	Easter	False
594	In the Byzantine period, this city became renowned for its silk industry, and served as the capital for the Catalan Company. Thucydides has representatives from this city argue that they were not responsible for siding with the Persians because they were then ruled by a tyrant. They secured their hegemony over Greece when Epaminodas lead them to victory over the Sparta at Leuctra in 371 BCE. The most famous unit from this city, the Sacred Band, was destroyed by the Macedonians at Chaeronea. For 10 points, name this Boetian city which ruled Greece before the arrival of Alexander the Great and was the setting for the myths of Cadmus, Polyneices, and Oedipus.	Thebes	Cadmus	False
595	He adapted Grimms' fairy tales into verse, set in his own country, in The Tale of the Fisherman and his Fish and The Tale of the Dead Princess and the Seven Warriors. In one of his romances, a hero rescues his lover from the evil magician Chernomor, while in an early novel, loosely based on his own ancestry, Peter the Great adopts a moor. A statue of Peter haunts a hero lost in the streets of Saint Petersburg in one of his poems. Also the author of a work where Lensky is shot in a duel by Tatiana's lover, for 10 points, identify this author of The Bronze Horseman, Ruslan and Ludmila, and Eugene Onegin.	Alexander Pushkin	Eugene_Onegin	False
596	The Sonogashira coupling uses a palladium catalyst to join one of these compounds to a vinyl halide.  Alkylated ones are formed in the Nicholas reaction, and other substituted ones can be formed in the Seyferth-Gilbert homologation.  In the Corey-Fuchs reaction, they are synthesized from aldehydes, while reacting them with dicyclohexyl borane can create aldehydes or ketones if their functional group is terminal. They can also be synthesized from dihalides by dehydro-halogenation, and they react with Lindlar's catalyst to reduce to alkenes.  For 10 points, name this class of compounds defined by a triple bond between two carbon atoms.	alkynes	Aldehyde	False
597	"One author from this country wrote about how a retired business man becomes erotically enchanted with his daughter-in-law, a dancer. The Tattoer and Arrowroot were written by an author from this country, while another author from this place wrote The Spring Equinox and Beyond. Another author from this country wrote about a man who seeks revenge on women by marrying them and having flamboyant gay affairs in Forbidden Colors. The author of Some Prefer Nettles was from this country, as was the writer of ""In a Grove."" For 10 points, name this home country of the guy who wrote The Sea of Fertility, Yukio Mishima, and ""Rashomon,"" Akutagawa Ryonosuke."	Japan [or Nihon-koku; or Nippon-koku]	Yukio_Mishima	False
598	"An important parameter of these objects can be measured with a four-point probe and slightly altered through planar weight disparity. One type is susceptible to a phenomenon known as stripes, and their behavior may be explained by particle undressing. Several ""infinite layer"" ones have recently been found to improve on YBCO, a prominent example of these materials whose behavior was modeled in Ginzburg-Landau theory. Copper oxides are ceramic examples of the ""high temperature"" kind, and their expulsion of magnetic fields is called the Meissner effect. For 10 points, name these materials which, below a critical temperature, have no electrical resistance."	superconductors	Superconductivity	False
599	According to Homer, Anteia, the queen of Argos, tried to seduce him, and after his fall from grace, he wandered the Aleian plain. He was the cousin of Melampus, and King Iobates was asked by his son-in-law to have this figure put to death, but his attempt was thwarted by the advice of the wisest man in Lycia. The son of Poseidon by Eurynome, he was told by Polyeidus to spend a night at one of Athena's altars, and when doing so he dreamed he was given a golden bridle. His fame went to his head, and when attempting to ride up Mount Olympus, he was bucked off. For 10 points, identify this tamer of Pegasus and slayer of the Chimera.	Bellerophon	Bellerophon	True
600	These compounds can be formed in the McFadyen-Stevens reaction from the decomposition of acyl-sulfonyl-hydrazides, while asymmetric ones are formed in the Meyers synthesis from the hydrolysis of an oxazine. Reactions in which their defining functional group is introduced, such as the Sommelet reaction that uses water and hexamine, are known as formylation reactions. They can also be formed in the Rosemund reduction of an acid chloride or through oxidation of a primary alcohol. For 10 points, name these compounds detected via the formation of a silver mirror in the Tollens test, defined by the presence of a terminal carbonyl group.	aldehydes	Aldehyde	True
601	"A controversial work on this theme added the confidante Laura and was composed by George Benda, while Berlioz, whose own opus 17 concerns this theme, considered the one by Daniel Steibelt to be the best of its kind.  Two vehement anti-Shostakovich editorials in Pravda prevented the performance in Russia of a ballet on this theme that features a notable part for tenor saxophone.  A work by Gottfried Keller provided the inspiration for one that contains the interlude ""The Walk to the Paradise Garden"" and is set in a village.  For 10 points, name this play that inspired an overture by Tchaikovsky and an opera by Gounod about two star-crossed lovers."	Romeo and Juliet	Dmitri_Shostakovich	False
602	"His last paper, Considerations on the Government of Poland, was completed, but never published. He writes about how men should rule publicly and women should rule men privately inone work, and another of his books says that man is corrupted by his want to be perfect. In addition to The New Heloise and Discourse on Inequality, he wrote about stealing from an employer and blaming the maid in his autobiography, Confessions. He also wrote about educating the titular boy, who marries Sophie, in Emile. For ten points, name this French writer who proposed obeying the ""general will"" because of man being everywhere in chains in his The Social Contract"	Jean-Jacques Rousseau	The_Social_Contract	False
603	"This figure's daughter participates in the ""stretching the cord"" ritual and is responsible for tracking the regnal dates of kings He holds power over Renenet and Shai, or Fortune and Fate, and he is sometimes considered syncretized with a youthful moon god who has a cobra on his head, Khonsu. He questions the dead before Ma'at weighs the heart, and is sometimes associated with baboons. Worshipped at Hermopolis, he was responsible for writing and the moon. For 10 points, name this Egyptian god who became known to later Greeks as Hermes Trismegestus and had an ibis head."	Thoth [or Djehuty]	Hermes	False
604	"In a later essay reflecting on this work, its author described the Woodland Road Camp's use of loudspeakers under pillows and included such chapters as ""The Arts of Selling"" and ""What Can Be Done?"" One character in this novel ultimately becoms dissilusioned at the ""orgyporgy,"" while another threatens to exile people to Iceland. The Arch-Community-Songster appears in this novel, which opens with a description of how to create clones in the Bokanovsky Process. In it, Lenina and Bernard journey to New Mexico to see John the Savage before a revolt against the use of soma causes Bernard to meet Mustapha Mond. For 10 points, name this Aldous Huxley novel."	Brave New World	Brave_New_World	True
605	This man's second string quartet includes a soprano in its last two movements, and he wrote an Accompaniment to a Cinematographic Scene while trying to find work as a film composer. Unaware of Debussy's opera, he wrote a tone poem on Pelleas and Melisande, and he composed a large setting of poems by Jens Peter Jacobsen, Gurreleide. This composer of A Survivor from Warsaw also wrote a string sextet about a woman's revelation of infidelity and an unfinished opera based on Exodus. For 10 points, identify this composer of Moses und Aron, Transfigured Night, and Pierrot Lunaire, the leader of the Second Viennese School who developed the 12-tone scale.	Arnold Schoenberg	String_quartet	False
606	"One character in this work says that men in undershirts are disgusting and that the word ""absent"" should be used in place of ""dead;"" she later tries to stab another character with a paper knife after explaining how she caused a man to shoot his face off in Switzerland. In its first scene, the editor of a pacifist newspaper asks for a toothbrush and is told that dark will never come and blinking is no longer possible. That character was shot on the way to Mexico, while another was a lesbian postal clerk and the third contracted pneumonia after drowing her child. For 10 points, name this play about Inez, Estelle, and Garcin which concludes that hell is other people, written by Jean-Paul Sartre."	No Exit [or Huis Clos]	No_Exit	True
607	"He wrote a of knife-sharpener who charms a woman into giving him flowers so he can resell the flowerpot in ""The Chrysanthemums,"" a story from his collection The Long Valley. His journey on the Western Flyer with Edward Ricketts was the basis for The Sea of Cortez, and one of his novels describes Mac and Jim Nolan's attempt to unionize fruit pickers. Another of his novels sees a main character shot after saying ""Le's do it now"" following the accidental death of Curley's wife. This author of In Dubious Battle and The Winter of Our Discontent described the Trask family in East of Eden. For 10 points, name this author of Cannery Row and The Grapes of Wrath."	John Steinbeck	John_Steinbeck	True
608	"Charles Koechlin completed his Egyptian-themed ballet Khamma, and this composer spent thirty years vacillating over the incidental music for As You Like It. He used a woodwind solo based on an Indian elephant-charm and parodied Gounoud's ""Soldier's Chorus"" and Mendelssohn's ""Wedding March"" in a ballet written for children, The Box of Toys, and he also wrote the depiction of tennis, Jeux. Another piece, which depicts a nocturnal phenomenon, is part of his Suite Bergamesque. For 10 points, name this composer who used the sections about the ""dialogue of the wind,"" ""from dawn to noon"" and ""play of the waves"" in his La Mer and also wrote ""Clair de Lune."""	Achille Claude Debussy	Felix_Mendelssohn	False
609	One form of this quantity is modified by the principle of least coupling to include the product of charge and vector potential, and its operator can be defined in simple cases as the negative product of i, h bar, and the gradient.  In the relativistic four-vector of it, the first term is energy divided by the speed of light, and that form is also included in a generalization of the classical stress tensor. Noether's theorem relates the conservation of this quantity to translational invariance, and its time rate of change is related to force via Newton's Second Law. For 10 points, name this quantity that is conserved in collisions and calculated as the product of mass and velocity, symbolized p.	linear momentum	Stress_(mechanics)	False
610	A kernel named for this behavior is used in the standard integral to create thermally averaged cross-sections. The non-classical form of this phenomenon is used by the Ives-Stilwell experiment and is known as the transverse form, while absorption resonances and spectral lines are given finite width due to this effect's namesake broadening. The magnitude of the classic version of this effect is determined by the factor of v over quantity v plus or minus v s, where v s is the propagation speed and v is the observer-frame normal source speed. For 10 points, name this effect in which the frequency of waves is altered when the source is moving relative to the observer.	Doppler effect [or Doppler shift]	Speed_of_light	False
611	"Kimberly Cornish's The Jew of Linz claims that Hitler's anti-Semitism arose from an unpleasant childhood encounter with this man, and that he later secretly worked to recruit spies for the USSR. One of his works contains the ""beetle-in-a-box"" thought experiment and challenges the reader to define what a ""game"" is. Starting with a quote from Augustine's Confessions, that work by this author says, correctly, that meaning comes from use and argues against the possibility of a private language. Arguing against the formal view of language presented in an earlier work, that is his Philosophical Investigations. For 10 points, name this author of Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus."	Ludwig Wittgenstein	Tractatus_Logico-Philosophicus	False
612	This man names a line passing through a triangle's orthocenter, circumcenter, and centroid, while a cuboid with integer edges and face diagonals is known as his brick. A generalization of Kurrah's rule for finding amicable pairs is his rule, and his formula relates the number of vertices, edges, and faces in a convex polyhedron. His namesake method is used to solve initial value problems in ordinary differential equations, and his totient function is used in a generalization of Fermat's Little Theorem. For 10 points, this is what namesake of a constant along with Mascheroni, a Swiss mathematician who is also the namesake of the base of the natural logarithm?	Leonhard Euler	Pierre_de_Fermat	False
613	"An emotional scene in this novel occurs when the protagonist mis-cuts a plug of tobacco, which causes her to be scolded by her husband. She talks back, and he hits her and refuses to talk to her. After that man dies, the woman leaves for Florida with a man who entertained her with checker games. At one point in this novel, the protagonist spends time ""on de muck,"" picking beans. One character in this novel is infected with rabies by a dog, which causes him to attempt to shoot his wife. That wife was first married to Logan Killicks, who takes her from her home with Nanny, but later weds Tea Cake. For 10 points, identify this novel about Janie Stark, written by Zora Neale Hurston."	Their Eyes Were Watching God	Their_Eyes_Were_Watching_God	True
614	"This work's text was strongly influenced by Gazzaniga's Convitato di pietra, which appeared eleven years before it. One character sings ""Ah, pity me, my lords"" after being confused for the title character, in an incident that also leads Ottavio to sing ""My Treasure"" about his beloved Anna, whose father was killed at the beginning of Act I. The peasant Zerlina often has to pacify Masetto's anger at the title figure, while Donna Elvira is informed of the title character's exploits by Leporello in the ""Catalogue"" aria.  For 10 points, name this opera ending with the statue of Anna's father, the Commendatore, dragging the titular seducer to Hell, composed by Mozart."	Don Giovanni	Don_Giovanni	True
615	The Gatterman-Koch reaction adds carbonyl groups to derivatives of this molecule, which when substituted with a hydroxyl group can undergo the Pechmann condensation to synthesize coumarins. The ANRORC mechanism is used to describe certain types of nucleophilic substitutions in it, and reacting it with sodium and an alcohol in liquid ammonia will selectively reduce it in a reaction named for Birch. It readily undergoes the Lewis acid-catalyzed Friedel-Crafts acylation, and simple derivatives of it include aniline and toluene. For 10 points, identify this chemical compound with molecular formula C6H6, whose structure was elucidated by Kekul?	benzene [prompt on C6H6]	Aldol_condensation	False
616	"This man's major work included a chapter on ""The Explanatory Power"" and also discussed the ""dummy carrier"" before analyzing the lack of meaning in the assertion that ""the fighting stopped."" He used three examples regarding a ""book on modern music"" before mentioning that ""the child seems sleeping"" in the chapter ""The Independence of Grammar,"" which also introduces the sentence ""colorless green ideas sleep furiously."" For 10 points, name this man whose Syntactic Structures laid out the theory of transformational-generative grammar, and who is both a noted MIT linguist and a leftist political commentator."	Noam Chomsky	Noam_Chomsky	True
617	"This man created the fictional television show ""Out of Sight"", which documents missing persons, as well as a mad scientist whose fertility clinic's success depends on his own sperm. In addition to the aforementioned Dr. Skreta, other characters created by this author include Agnes, who dies while attempting to avoid another person's suicide attempt, and Vincent, who possesses a talking penis. More famous may be Ludvik Jahn, one of four narrators of this author's The Joke, and a man who quits his job as a surgeon rather than sign a document affirming his love for the Soviet Union, Tomas. For 10 points, name this Czech author of The Unbearable Lightness of Being."	Milan Kundera	The_Unbearable_Lightness_of_Being	False
618	He painted his dad sitting in a chair with his legs crossed in his Fauvist Portrait of the Artist's Father. He created a fake rip in the canvas near a pointing hand and a real bottle brush in Tu m', and his last major work was a peep show created in secret.  He collaborated on the film Anemic Cinema with Man Ray, who photographed him in drag as Rrose Selavy, and he never quite finished a work also known as The Large Glass. In Advance of the Broken Arm and Bicycle Wheel are examples of a form he created that included one signed by R. Mutt. For 10 points, name this producer of ready-mades who caused a stir at the Armory Show with his Nude Descending a Staircase, No. 2.	Marcel Duchamp	Philip_Glass	False
619	"This author commanded ""Phoebus make haste, the day's too long, be gone"" in one poem, and another of this author's poems compares a contemporary leader to Semiramis, Zenobia, and Cleopatra. Ecclesiastes inspired this author to write ""The Vanity of All Worldly Things,"" and this author described being ""waken'd...with thund'ring noise"" and the ""fearful sound of 'fire'"" in ""Verses Upon the Burning of Our House."" John Woodbridge secretly published the most famous collection of this author's poems, which included ""The Author to Her Book"" and ""To My Dear and Loving Husband."" For 10 points, name this colonial poet of The Tenth Muse Lately Sprung Up in America."	Anne Bradstreet	Cleopatra	False
620	One device named for this man is used in optical isolators and is governed in part by the Verdet constant. That device, known as his rotator, makes use of his eponymous effect, whereby ferromagnetic resonance leads to circular birefringence to change the polarization angle of light upon application of a magnetic field.  One law named for him makes use of his eponymous constant, which has a value of about 96,000 Coulombs per mole.  Another law named for him concerns the relationship between the time derivative of magnetic flux and the electromotive force it generates. For 10 points, identify this namesake of a law of induction and of the SI unit for capacitance.	Michael Faraday	Magnetic_field	False
621	In his latest work, a Doctor tries to help a Mother who confuses her twin sons otto and the identity-stealing OTTO; verbal hilarity ensues. He also wrote a piece at the end of which Julia turns to alcohol, like Agnes's sister, Claire. He also wrote about an elderly couple and two giant lizards, while in another play, the cast, including a musician and calisthenics-performing Angel of Death, break the fourth wall and pretend that the titular object is a beach. He also described Honey and Nick's disastrous visit to the home of George and Martha. For 10 points, name this playwright of A Delicate Balance. The Sandbox, The Zoo Story, and Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?	Edward Franklin Albee III	Who's_Afraid_of_Virginia_Woolf?	False
622	While enslaved by Queen Omphale of Lydia, he was forced to dress up as a woman and do women's chores, though he eventually ended his bondage and married her. King Thespius asked this man to impregnate all fifty of his daughters, which he did in one night. This man made an agreement to help Laomedon kill a sea monster in exchange for the magic horses given to Laomedon by Zeus, but when Laomedon reneged, this man killed Laomedon and all his sons except Priam. His affair with Iole led his third wife Deianira to kill him by mistake. After he died, he married Hebe. For 10 points, name this hero who went mad and killed Megara, resulting in his twelve labours.	"Heracles [accept Hercules before ""Zeus"" is read; do not accept or prompt on Hercules afterwards]"	Heracles	True
623	"Foucault's The Order of Things opens with an extensive discussion of how this painting signals an epistemological break in its complex sightlines, and Luca Giordano called it the ""Theology of Painting.""  A dark figure, knee half bent, pauses in a doorway in the rear, while an ebony mirror on the rear wall reflects the likely viewers of the scene depicted.  The greatest emphasis in this painting is on a young girl, illuminated by a window at right and accompanied by her attendants, one of whom is rousing a sleeping dog with his foot.  The Infanta Margarita and two dwarfs are the central figures of, for 10 points, what painting by Diego Velazquez?"	Las Meninas [or The Maids of Honor]	Las_Meninas	True
624	This artist worked on an unrealized temple for the Maharaja of Indore, and while in Paris, Isamu Noguchi worked in his studio. He created a scandal with the phallic Princess X, and a shape meant to represent fertility comprises his Beginning of the World. A solitary disembodied head, known as Sleeping Muse, launched his career at the Armory Show, while legend from his native country inspired his Maiastra. His large public installation at Tirgu Jiu features The Gate of the Kiss, The Table of Silence, and the 100 foot tall spire known as The Endless Column. For 10 points, name this artist of a highly polished bronze statue that resembles a wing, the Romanian sculptor of Bird in Space.	Constantin Brancusi	Constantin_Brâncuși	False
625	The Gross-Pitaevskii equation is used to model it, and in a 2002 Science paper, semiconductor quantum wells were used to study it in exciton-polaritons. Observing the second-order coherence properties can give optical evidence of it, and when placed in an optical lattice, it can show a superfluid to Mott-insulator phase transition. Electro-magnetically induced transparency, atom lasing, and ultra-slow light have been observed in it, and in the first demonstration of it, rubidium atoms were loaded in a magneto-optical trap and laser cooled to just above absolute zero. For 10 points, identify this distinct form of matter, named for an Indian and a German physicist.	Bose-Einstein condensate [prompt on BEC]	Laser	False
626	"This composer's chamber works include a single-movement piece in C minor usually known as the Quartettsatz, as well as a sonata in A minor for arpeggione and piano. His Rondo in A Major and Fantasy in F minor are major four-handed works for piano, and like Rachmaninoff he composed a set of four Moments musicaux for solo piano. ""Die Leiermann"" closes another work whose movements include ""Auf dem Flusse"" and ""Der Lindenbaum,"" and the song ""Die Forelle"" is the basis for one movement of a piece that substitutes a double bass for the usual second violin. For 10 points, name this composer of Die Winterreise, the Trout Quintet, and the Unfinished Symphony."	Franz Schubert	Piano_sonata	False
627	Some of the medieval sources about this god may have plagiarized his tales from the Cycle of the Narts, an Ossetian epic which contains the very similar figure of Syrdon. He gave a gold-seeking ring to Hreidmar after stealing it from Andvari. In the Poetic Edda, this figure is invited to a feast given by Aegir, the sea god, but he loses his temper, kills a servant, and is driven off. The son of the giant F?bauti, this figure who will be killed by Heimdall at Ragnarok himself fathered Hel. A giant with the ability to change shape at will, he uses his powers to give birth to Odin's horse, Sleipnir. For 10 points, name this husband of Sigyn and Norse trickster god.	Loki	Heimdallr	False
628	"This man's second symphony introduced electronic instruments to imitate radio signals, and a reading of ""Prometheus Unbound"" inspired his Music for a Scene from Shelley. His neoclassical works include the Capricorn Concerto, while he experimented with atonality in Prayers of Kierkegaard. He received a Pulitzer Prize for an opera in which Anatol seduces Erika, while another of his works is written in ""arch"" form and comes from the second movement of his first string quartet. For 10 points, name this American composer who used a text by James Agee in his Knoxville: Summer of 1915, and who created the opera Vanessa and the Adagio for Strings."	Samuel Barber	Samuel_Barber	True
629	The Boltzmann-Matano method gives coefficients for this process, whose Knudsen type occurs at low pressure. On surfaces, it can occur in reptation and leapfrog modes, while it names an approximation used in reconstruction of optical tomograms. The Bohm type occurs in plasmas, and its constant is related to the ratio of terminal drift velocity to an applied force in the Einstein relation. Multiplying that same constant by 4 and time gives the square of the length associated with this process, whose flux is inversely related to separation in Fick's Laws. For 10 points, name this process also described by Graham's law, the movement of a particle down a concentration gradient	diffusion	Ludwig_Boltzmann	False
630	Interactions which have two of these particles in the initial and final states are described by M?ller scattering.  Julian Schwinger calculated a leading-order radiative correction for the anomalous magnetic moment of these particles, given by the fine-structure constant over two pi.  The use of Stokes' Law to calculate drag force was part of an experiment to determine one of its properties, and they interacted with a nickel target in the Davisson-Germer experiment.  Their antiparticles were discovered by Carl Anderson, and the Hall effect shows that currents in metals consist of, for 10 points, these particles whose charge was measured in Millikan's oil-drop experiment.	electrons	Davisson–Germer_experiment	False
631	"Experiments demonstrating it involved filling out a questionnaire in a room slowly filled with smoke, the stealing of beer from a liquor store, and talking about stress problems with other students during which someone suffers a seizure, all studies by Darley and Latane from a 1969 article entitled ""Apathy."" Prior commitment, ambiguity of the situation, and recognized leadership are factors that determine it, though the most famous case involved a crime committed in the Kew Gardens against a bar manager. For 10 points, the murder of Kitty Genovese is an example of what effect, in which individuals in a large group are less likely to help those in distress?"	bystander effect	Bystander_effect	True
632	"This man's only opera was The Maiden in the Tower, though a later work was originally the prelude to the never-realized opera The Creation of the Boat.  He wrote incidental music to plays like Everyman and Strindberg's fairy-drama Swanwhite, while tone poems include Nightride and Sunrise and The Dryad. ""A Spring in the Park"" and ""Three Blind Sisters"" are among the eight movements of his incidental music to Pelleas et Melisande.  This composer of seven symphonies honored his home province in his Karelia Suite, though he is better-known for mythical pieces like Kullervo and The Swan of Tuonela.  For 10 points, name this composer of Finlandia."	Jean Sibelius	August_Strindberg	False
633	The pastor Marius Byleveld attempts to get sculptress Helen Martins to move to a retirement home in a play by this author, who also wrote a drama in which Shark, the leader of the tsotsis, is lectured by Father Higgins. Another of his plays takes place as the two biracial title characters wander near a river following their expulsion from town in a sweep by white supremacists. Another of his titles refers to the invisible link between Morris and Zachariah Pietersen, and he also wrote about Sam and Willie's return to subservience at the hands of an insecure white teenager. For 10 points, name this author of No-Good Friday, The Blood Knot, and Master Harold and the Boys.	Athol Fugard	Gaius_Marius	False
634	"The first extrasolar planet to be definitively confirmed was found orbiting one of these objects by Alexander Wolszczan. One subclass of them is also known as the ""recycled"" type, and the Hulse-Taylor binary one provided the first observational evidence of gravity waves.  Roche lobe overflow leads to the accretion-powered ones that emit x-rays, while the decay of a strong magnetic field powers the magnetar class. Glitches can occur in the originally discovered type of these objects, whose misalignment of rotation and magnetic axes is responsible for their most prominent feature. For 10 points, name these rotating neutron stars that regularly emit radiation."	pulsars	Neutron_star	False
635	"He never wrote a planned forty-page essay called On the Imaginative in Poetry, which was to be the preface to his universally derided reinterpretation of The Winter's Tale entitled Zapolya.  One of his poems discusses a ""Dark green file of long lank weeds,"" and he also wrote about ""silent icicles, quietly shining to the quiet moon"" in ""Frost at Midnight."" In one of his poems, ""slimy things did crawl upon my legs"" and the ""bloody sun...did stand no higher than the moon"" as a result of a rash action taken with a crossbow and described to a wedding-guest. For 10 points, name this author of ""Christabel"" and ""Dejection: An Ode"" who wrote ""The Rime of the Ancient Mariner."""	Samuel Taylor Coleridge	The_Rime_of_the_Ancient_Mariner	False
636	"This man described a ""theatre state,"" a situation when power serving pomp and not the other way around, in his Negara.  Using the villages of Sefrou and Pare as focal points for his analysis, he argued that anthpology must grapple with how modernity transforms symbolic systems in After the Fact.  His work in the 1960s lead to the papers Peddlers and Princes and Agricultural Involution, which dealt with the development of Indonesia, a topic revisited in Islam Observed.  His most famous work begins with the analysis of the meaning of a wink, and goes on to describe man as suspended in ""webs of significance"".  A promoter of ""thick description"", FTP, name this American anthropologist, whose essay ""Deep Play: Notes on the Balinese Cockfight"" can be found in his Interpretation of Cultures."	Clifford Geertz	Indonesia	False
637	"In a response to his critics, this man accused Isaac Newton of failing to properly eliminate the ""rectangle of the moments"" and discusses the similarities between believing in God and believing in fluxions. Another of his works explores the difference between pleasure and heat to support the ""master argument."" He points out that we do not see the same moon that we can travel to, but rather see a small disk which is quite unlike the actual moon, in his attempt to explain how distance is perceived in the Essay Toward a New Theory of Vision. That essay seems to contradict his axiom, ""esse est percipi."" For 10 points, name this author of A Treatise Concerning the Principles of Human Knowledge and Three Dialogues Between Hylas and Philonus who believed that ""to be is to be perceived,"" the leading idealist empiricist."	George Berkeley	Moon	False
638	In one story, the maiden Apala prays to this god, and he cures Apala's father's baldness and makes Apala grow pubic hair. This god's wife thrusts against her man better than any other woman, which may explain why her loins were violated by Vrsakapi, this god's favorite monkey. That wife is a daughter of Puloman. When another god hides in the waters, this god joins Varuna's expedition to find him, and delivers a speech coaxing Agni to come out. When Hanuman attempted to catch the sun, this god struck him in the chin, leaving a permanent scar. Married to Sachi, he rides Airavata, a five-headed white elephant, and hurls the Vajra. For 10 points, name this Hindu thunder deity, the chief god of the Vedic pantheon.	Indra	Agni	False
639	"In this work, an explosion in a restaurant is mostly ignored by patrons; an official on TV attributes to ""beginner's luck"" his inability to stop the thirteen-year campaign of which that explosion is part. In an earlier scene, a little girl remarks ""Father Christmas can't come if you haven't got a chimney"" shortly before her apartment is stormed by police and her father is arrested; his arrest was caused by a ""bug"" at the opening of this film. The protagonist's heater malfunctions at one point, but the rogue repairman Tuttle repairs it. Set in a dystopic future with a bloated bureaucracy, this film features Jonathan Pryce as Sam Lowry, a government employee searching for a woman who appears in his dreams. For 10 points, identify this Terry Gilliam film known for its theme song, a ""Watercolor of"" the title country."	Brazil	Battleship_Potemkin	False
640	"This person is the namesake of an algorithm to minimize Boolean functions, along with Edward McCluskey. He proposed that any empirical test of a theory is a test of many inter-connected hypotheses, which is known as his namesake thesis, with Duhem. He argued that ontology can be determined by analyzing a language's ability to quantify in his Ontological Relativity. A more famous work discusses the indeterminacy of translation and argues for linguistic analysis as a solution to philosophical problems, while perhaps his most famous work rejects the analytic-synthetic distinction held by the logical positivists. For 10 points, identify this author of Word and Object and ""Two Dogmas of Empiricism."""	Willard Van Orman Quine	Willard_Van_Orman_Quine	True
641	"One religion says that this figure was taken to the Orissa region for instruction in the Jagannath Temple, and appeared to a couple named Claudius and Juliet, Roman pagans, on the Tiber River. In another religion, this figure is known as ""kdaba,"" and was originally Mandaean, but perverted the prophecies of his mentor and became an evil figure, like Moses and Abraham. A claimed disciple of this man, a son of Patek, died at Gundeshapur at the hands of Bahram I. Among the figures who have claimed to be him were Marshall Applewhite, the leader of Heaven's Gate, and David Koresh. For 10 points, name this figure recognized in Islam as 'Isa, believed in by the so-called ""Jews for"" him, and by a messload of Christians."	Jesus [or 'Isa or Yehoshua]	Claudius	False
642	In Calvino's If on a Winter's Night a Traveler, the novel Looks Down in the Gathering Shadow is by a fictional author from this country, which is the location of the monastery that is the final resting place of the narrator of August Strindberg's Inferno.  Sylvia, the wife of Vonnegut's Mr. Rosewater, ends up in a nunnery here, while fictional characters from this country include a horse painter in The Enormous Room and the lover of the title character of Charlotte Bronte's Shirley, Louis Gerard Moore.  One work from this country is set partially in a dream world created by Tyltyl and Myltyl, while novels from this country include The Abyss and The Watchmaker of Everton, the latter written by the creator of Inspector Maigret, Georges Simenon.  Also the homeland of the author of Pelleas et Melisande, Maurice Maeterlinck, this is, for 10 points, what European country with capital at Brussels.	Belgium	Kurt_Vonnegut	False
643	This ion plays an important role in the structure of coccolithophores, and it is stored in oxalate crystals in plastids.  Its presence in living tissue can be detected due to its ability to bind with BAPTA. The uptake of this element is regulated by its namesake receptor in the parathyroid's chief cells, and it is used as a regulator in secreting renin by the kidneys' juxtaglomerular cells.  Widely used as a second messenger in signal transduction, it can also bind to proteins such as troponin-C and calmodulin.  Stored in the sarcoplasmic reticulum and important in muscle contraction, FTP, identify this ion found most commonly in teeth and bones.	"calcium ions or Ca2+ (prompt on ""calcium"")"	Endoplasmic_reticulum	False
644	"This concept forms part of the title of a series of works, along with the word ""technics"", on the historical repression of technical skill within philosophy, written by Bernard Stiegler. ""The end"" of this concept was the title of a work by Julian Barbour, while the inherent contradiction of the ""A Series"" argument is cited as proof of ""the unreality"" of this concept in a work by the idealist J.M.E. McTaggart. The experience of this by the consciousness was defined as a qualitative multiplicity known as ""duration"", which first appears in a work named for this concept ""and free will"" by Henri Bergson. For 10 points, what is this concept which completes the title of a work on ""dasein"", the most famous of Martin Heidegger, and which is often associated with space?"	time [accept Technics and Time]	Martin_Heidegger	False
645	"One of this man's title characters learns that Shakespeare is forced to walk behind a ""common tailor from Tennessee"" named Billings, while in a novel of his, a man invents the Cursing Phonograph and another character pretends to be the outlaw One-Armed Pete. That novel was intended as a sequel, but the protagonist's name had to be changed to ""Mulberry"" after a lawsuit from a man who shared a name with the original character. That character first appeared in a novel where the fall of Senator Dilworthy and the murder trial of Laura dash Washington Hawkins's scheme to profit from establishing a black college. This author of  ""Captain Stormfield's Visit To Heaven"" and ""The Private History of a Campaign that Failed"" wrote the quite-posthumouly published play ""Is He Dead?"" as well as a satire on the Congo called ""King Leopold's Soliloquy,"" though he may be better known for such novels as one subtitled ""A Tale of Today"" and co-written with Charles Dudley Warner, ""The Gilded Age."" For 10 points, name this creator of Injun Joe, Hank ""The Boss"" Morgan, an amphibian from Calaveras County, and Tom Sawyer."	Mark Twain [or Samuel Clemens]	Tennessee	False
646	She formed the Milky Way when she spilled her breast-milk following the discovery of surreptitious suckling, and she sent Side (SEE-day) to the underworld for being as beautiful as she was. According to Pausanias, she is worshipped at Stymphalus as a widow. She was courted at Mount Thornax, after being brought up by the Seasons and Temenus. She bathed at the spring of Canathus to renew her virginity, and she took pity on her lover, who came to her in the form of a cuckoo. She was hung with a golden bracelet after Briareus rescued her husband from a hundred knots. Her contact with lettuces and flowers led to the birth of her children Hebe, Eris, and Ares. She also had Jason carry her across a river, and tried to foil Heracles. For 10 points, name this daughter of Rhea and Cronus, the goddess of marriage and wife of Zeus.	Hera	Ares	False
647	The gene S100A8 can protect against it, and a recent study showed that melatonin can antagonize it in partheno-genetic embryos.  This process can be detected via the uptake of 7-AAD during flow cytometry, the exclusion of trypan blue, and the terminal dUTP nick-end labeling, or TUNEL assay.  Binding of the Fas ligand induces it, as does upregulation of proteins like BAX and BAD, while other members of the Bcl-2 family oppose it.  The exact number of times this process occurs is known for the development of C. elegans, whose ced-3 proteins are the homologues of the Apaf-1-activated human caspases that are responsible for many of its effects.  Also initiated by p53 upon un-repairable DNA damage, FTP, name this process of type I programmed cell death.	"apoptosis [prompt on ""programmed cell death""]"	Apoptosis	True
648	His love of the satyr Ampelos, who was killed by the river Pactolus, resulted in the creation of one of the things most associated with him. In one story, when King Lycurgus learned that this god was in his kingdom, he imprisoned the followers of him, which resulted in the god's fleeing to Thetis. He then made Lycurgus go insane, thinking his son was some ivy, a plant holy to this god, which in turn made the land go bare until Lycurgus was drawn and quartered by his rebelling people. In another famous case of regal hostility towards this god, who was worshipped by the maenads, his own cousin is eventually raped and torn to pieces by a group of women including his mother, Agave, after Pentheus is driven to the wilds following his forbidding of this god's worship in a story used for a play by Euripedes. For 10 points, this son of a woman who died when she saw Zeus in his full splendor, Semele, the Greek god of inspired madness and wine.	"Dionysus [accept Bacchus before ""Zeus"" is read and do not accept or prompt on it after]"	Dionysus	True
649	"This man's second symphony uses the folk song ""Long, Long Ago"" as one theme, and he left an unfinished Universe Symphony.  A tremolando underlies the second movement of his fourth symphony, which draws from ""The Celestial Railroad,"" and he synthesized jazz, rag, ""Hello My Baby,"" and Sousa's ""Washington Post"" in a piece meant to evoke the nightlife of New York. He composed a work in which a solo trumpet asks the ""Perennial Question of Existence,"" and another that contains the movement ""Putnam's Camp.""  Central Park in the Dark and The Unanswered Question are by, for 10 points, this American composer of Three Places in New England."	Charles Ives	Symphony_No._9_(Dvořák)	False
650	One realm associated with this figure is generally believed to be the planet Jupiter, and was called Nibiru. His chariot was drawn by four horses named Trampler, Haste, Pitiless, and Killer, and this figure's father led Mummu by a nose-rope just before his birth. He built a palace called Esharra, and his weapons include the Abuba, Imhullu, and a net that Anu gave him. This figure killed Kingu, whose blood Ninhursag used to create the first human. His father is a water deity called Ea, and he earned the Tablets of Destiny after killing a dragon that represented the sea.  For 10 points, name this patron god of Babylon, the slayer of Tiamat.	Marduk [or Bel]	Jupiter	False
651	Like another polity under Margaret, this polity was harassed by the pesky Likedeelers, who arose from the defeated Victual Brothers. This polity acquired a London steelyard in a deal brokered with Henry IV at Utrecht. It fought a war with the Netherlands that ended when Christopher of Batavia crushed a peasant uprising, leading to the Treaty of Copenhagen. It set up posts known as kontors, and this polity captured Visby, which led to the signing of the Treaty of Stralsund with Valdemar IV, granting it fifteen percent of Denmark's shipping profits. For 10 points, name this northern European trading alliance.	the Hanseatic League [or Hansa]	Treaty_of_Versailles	False
652	"Henri Bergson wrote a dissertation on this man's ""Conception of Place,"" and Porphyry penned the Isogage, a commentary on one of this man's works. Roger Bacon's Opus Major and Opus Minor criticized this man, and he wrote a work that states that young men are not well-suited to listen to discussions of right and wrong.  Another of his works defines nature as a principle of change, while another contrasts the theories of Hippodemus and Plato. He also wrote a work that emphasizes plot and claims that recognition is the key to producing catharsis. For 10 points, name this philosopher of the Nichomachean Ethics, Physics, Politics, and Poetics."	Aristotle	Francis_Bacon	False
653	This man allegedly was buried in a coffin of pure ivory in Gur-e Amir, and his legendary calligrapher Omar Aqta supposedly wrote the entire Quran on a ring. His grandson Shah Rokh tried to reunite his empire, which was expanded when he beat Mahmud Tughluq at the Second Battle of Panipat. He kidnapped the artisans of Damascus and fought the Knights of Rhodes at Smyrna, and he supported Tokhtamysh against Russia. Also conducting a notorious sacking of Dehli, for 10 points, name this fourteenth century Turkic conqueror, noted for constructing giant-ass pyramids of human skulls, and for being crippled.	Tamerlane [or Timur the Lame; or Emir Timur]	Quran	False
654	"The Two Admirers attempt to get a peek at the title character in this man's work The Leader, and he wrote a work in which Jack and Roberta are ordered to go to ""the hatching,"" The Future is in Eggs. One of his works sees the title character lure victims to their drowning death by offering to show them ""A picture of the colonel."" In addition to The Killer, one of his plays deals with the dinner party conversations between the Fire Chief and the title character, who always wears her hair in the same style, while another features Berenger, who refuses to turn into the title beast. For 10 points, name this absurdist playwright who wrote The Bald Soprano and Rhinoceros."	Eugene Ionesco	Rhinoceros	False
655	One chapter of this novel takes on two opposing voices, one of which praises Sir Ernest Oppenheimer and another which regrets that Beresford has such great oratory skills. John Harrison, who is Mary's brother, is left a sizable check for his boy's club, while its protagonist leaves Mrs. Lithebe's house after Johannes Pafuri and Matthew are acquitted for lack of evidence. Its plot had been set in motion after Theophilus Msimangu sent a letter revealing that Gertrude was ill, causing its protagonist to discover that Absalom had shot Arthur Jarvis. As a result, Reverend Stephen Kumalo's son is hanged at the conclusion of, for 10 points, which novel by Alan Paton?	Cry, the Beloved Country	Cry,_the_Beloved_Country	True
656	Pausanias claimed that this figure was raised by either Temenos or by the daughters of Asterion, and she was once seduced on the mountain of Thornax. She once sent a plague to ravage Aegina, after which the island's ants were turned into men. She also ordered Tethys to prevent Ursa Major and Minor from dropping below the horizon, as she held a grudge against Callisto. This cow-eyed deity also turned Lamia into a child-eating monster and ordered Argus to guard Io, and her children with her husband include Hebe and Ares. The peacock is sacred to, for 10 points, which daughter of Cronus and Rhea, the wife of Zeus and queen of the Greek gods?	"Hera [accept Juno until, say, ""Greek""]"	Ares	False
657	In the Corey-Bakshi-Shibata catalyst, an atom of it is attached to a pyrrole ring, an oxygen atom, and a toluene group. This element's acids are combined with amines and ketones in the Petasis reaction and in combining alkyl halides through the Suzuki coupling. Complexes containing it are called sido or arachno according to Wade's rules, and a more famous reaction using it is sometimes named for Herbert Brown. Mined from the ore Uletite, its silicate was once used in making hard glass for manufacturing laboratory equipment. For 10 points, name this element that participates in an anti-markonikov addition reaction to alkenes, with atomic number 5 and symbol B.	Boron [accept B until mentioned]	Amine	False
658	"This thinker asked ""what is it to dwell?"" in ""Building, Dwelling, Thinking"" and considered the effects of a ""destitute time"" on the works of Rilke in ""What Are Poets For?"", both of which appear in his Poetry, Language, Thought.  He discussed the path provided by the Greek word philosophia in What is Philosophy? and also wrote about Kant and the Problem of Metaphysics, though he is better  known for a work which introduced ontological hermeneutics and discussed a concept related to presence in the world, dasein.  For 10 points, name this Nazi-loving author of Being and Time."	Martin Heidegger	Rainer_Maria_Rilke	False
659	"This person's time spent assisting Sobhuza II of Swaziland led to a work on race relations in Africa edited posthumously by Phyllis Kaberry as The Dynamics of Culture Change.  This author wrote an essay discussing belief in ancestral spirits who impregnate bathing women, ""Baloma,"" which appears in a collection with ""Magic, Science, and Religion.""  This person founded a school of anthropology that Radcliffe-Brown would extend to a ""structural"" variety, functionalism.  His Coral Gardens and their Magic draws on his experience in the Trobriand Islands, while his most famous book discusses the Kula ring.  For 10 points, name this author of Argonauts of the Western Pacific."	Bronislaw Malinowski	Bronisław_Malinowski	False
660	"This man was the governor of the Kaffa region during his grandfather's reign, and he banished the concubine Gulbehar from his kingdom. He signed the Peace of Amasia with Tahmasp, who kept control of Tabriz, though late in his life, he lost a campaign against the Knights of St. John in Malta. He employed Sinan as the chief architect, married Roxelana, and was often called ""kanuni."" Though his navy led by Barbarossa suffered heavy losses in his capture of Rhodes, he defeated Louis II in the 1526 Battle of Mohacs, but he failed in his siege of Vienna. The son of Selim the Grim, for 10 points, name this ruler of the Ottoman Empire who is often called ""the magnificent."""	"Suleiman I [accept: Suleiman the Magnificent until ""the magnificent;"" accept Suleiman the Lawgiver; or Suleiman Kanuni, early]"	Suleiman_the_Magnificent	True
661	"This man took advantage of an Ottoman siege of Chocim to win a war featuring battles like Dirshau and Mewe, and he inherited the throne in the middle of the Kalmark War.  He signed the Truce of Altmark with Sigismund III, who his father had overthrown, and his greatest victory came with the help of Lennart Torstenson and involved an encirclement of Pappenheim.  The son of Charles IX, he used combined arms tactics to win battles like the Lech and Breitenfeld, where he defeated the Catholics.  For 10 points, name this Lutheran ruler who died at the Battle of Lutzen, a king of Sweden known as the ""Lion of the North."""	Gustavus II Adolphus [or Gustav II Adolf; or Gustavus II]	Ottoman_Empire	False
662	This artist created the Fountain of the Bees for the Barberini family and sculpted busts like Damned Soul and Blessed Soul. His works in the Galleria Borghese include one that depicts the three title figures fleeing from Troy, and one that depicts a woman turning into a tree. In addition to Aeneas, Anchises, and Ascanius and Apollo and Daphne, he designed the oval church of Sant'Andrea al Quirinale. He sculpted a work in the Piazza Navona which includes representations of the Nile and the Ganges and one which shows an angel pointing a spear at the title figure. For 10 points, name this Italian sculptor of The Fountain of the Four Rivers and The Ecstacy of Saint Theresa.	Gianlorenzo Bernini [or Giovanni Lorenzo Bernini]	Aeneas	False
663	"This composer began one work with the opening dedication, ""To the City of Venice, in praise of its Patron Saint, the Blessed Mark, Apostle"" in Canticum Sacrum. Furbo performs a fake resurrection to reignite Pimpinella's devotion for the title character of one of his ballets, and a double fugue starting in the oboes begins the second movement of a work, which has each movement dedicated to one of the hortatory virtues. Along with Pulcinella and Symphony of Psalms, one of his works features the ""Procession of the Sage"" and ""The Evocation of the Ancestors,"" and begins with a noted bassoon solo.  For 10 points, name this composer of Petrushka and The Rite of Spring."	Igor Fyodorovich Stravinsky	Fugue	False
664	"While serving as Chancellor of the Exchequer  this man reset the ten year rule and caused a general strike in support of coal miners when he enacted a return to the gold standard.  He was involved in a scandal surrounding the Sidney Street Shootings as Home Secretary, and he supported close cooperation with the United States through the ""special relationship.""  During World War I he was disgraced for his role in the Gallipoli Campaign as First Lord of the Admiralty, and he won a Nobel Prize in Literature in part for a history of World War II.  For 10 points, name this Prime Minister who succeeded Neville Chamberlain."	Sir Winston Leonard Spencer-Churchill	Neville_Chamberlain	False
665	There exists a real number A such that the floor of the quantity A to the three to the n gives one of these numbers for every positive integer n according to Mills' Theorem. Two to the quantity p minus one is congruent to one modulo p squared is satisfied by the Weifrich type of these. The Lucas-Lehmer Test is used to determine if a number fits a specific category of these and every even number can be written as the sum of two of these according to Goldbach's conjecture. Euclid showed that there are infinitely many of, for 10 points, what type positive integers, with two being the smallest member, which are only divisible by one and themselves.	"prime numbers [accept Mills theorem until ""these numbers""]"	Integer	False
666	The Dead Man and the Dead Woman are invited by Aroni to appear at the Gathering of the Tribes in this man's A Dance of the Forests, and his other works include the chaotic Requiem for a Futurologist. He wrote poems based on Gulliver's Travels, Ulysses, and Hamlet in his collection A Shuttle in the Crypt, produced during the same prison stay as his memoir The Man Died. One work by this man describes the love triangle between Lakunle, Baroka, and Sidi, while in another, Simon Pilkings orders Sergeant Amusa to prevent the ritual suicide of Elesin Oba. For 10 points, identify this Nigerian playwright, the author of The Lion and the Jewel and Death and the King's Horseman.	"Akinwande Oluwole ""Wole"" Soyinka [accept A Dance of the Forests before ""this man's""]"	Lemuel_Gulliver	False
667	The Abbe number is defined in terms of this quantity, which can be found using Cauchy's or Sellmeier's equation.  It is equal to the square root of the product of the relative permeability and the relative permittivity of the material, and metamaterials could have a negative value for this quantity.  The arctangent of the ratio between two materials' values for this gives Brewster's Angle.  It also appears in an equation that follows from Fermat's Principle, Snell's Law, and it is defined as the ratio of the speed of light in a vacuum to in a medium.  For 10 points, name this property which governs a namesake effect in which a beam of light is bent as it passes between mediums.	Index of Refraction [or Refractive Index]	Pierre_de_Fermat	False
668	"This figure's wife once sent a ring to his mother's handmaiden Fulla. Thor killed the dwarf Lit shortly after the giantess Hyrrokkin arrived to help with one of this god's possessions. He lived in the land of ""fewest baneful runes,"" which is home to his hall Breidablik. He sent Draupnir back to Asgard with his brother Hermod, who'd been denied in his petition on this god's behalf by another god disguised as Thokk. This owner of Hringhorn, husband of Nanna, and father of Forseti was avenged by Vali after his death. For 10 points, identify this son of Odin and Frigg, who died after Loki tricked his blind brother Hoder into killing him with a mistletoe dart, the most beautiful of the Aesir."	Baldur [or Balder]	Frigg	False
669	"Compounds studied by this technique may be mixed with mineral oil to form a nujol mull, and potassium bromide pellets can also be mixed with solid analytes in another variation. This technique is only useful with compounds that see a change in dipole moment, which is why homonuclear diatomics cannot be studied using this technique. The spectrum produced by this technique has a region unique to each molecule called the ""fingerprint"" region, and carbonyl containing groups have a characteristic response to it at around 1700 wavemumbers. For 10 points, name this spectroscopic technique that uses light shorter than microwaves but longer than red visible light."	IR Spectroscopy [or Infrared Spectroscopy]	Potassium	False
670	"The ""Salt Pan"" is a section of the Cienaga de Zapatas Park, which is located in its Matanzas province. The longest river in this country partly forms the border between the Holguin and Granma provinces after originating in the Sierra Maestra, and the chain of islands extending from its Hicasos peninsula to the Nuevitas bay is called the Sabana-Camaguey archipelago. Isla de la Juventud is located south of the Gulf of Batabano off the Caribbean coast of this country, whose cities include Pinar del Rio and Santiago. Located south of the Straits of Florida, for 10 points, identify this country whose easternmost province is Guantanamo and whose capital is Havana."	Republic of Cuba	Florida	False
671	"This writer discussed nasal reflexes and the concept of ""Hamlet the hysteric"" in a series of letters written to Wilhelm Fliess.  One of his works argues that the murder of the title figure is the basis of the Jewish faith while another argues that the title structured society infringes on individual desires, leading to the title misery.  In addition to Moses and Monotheism and Civilization and its Discontents, he explored incest in primitive cultures in Totem and Taboo and discussed the concepts of id, ego, and superego in Beyond the Pleasure Principle.  For 10 points, name this writer of The Interpretation of Dreams, the founder of psychoanalysis."	Sigmund Freud	Hamlet	False
672	The Kidd glycoproteins present on their surface act as urea transporters. Spectrin and ankyrin are found in the cytoskeletal network of these cells and antibodies on their surface are detected by the direct Coombs test. They express high levels of CD47, which prevents phagocytosis by macrophages in the spleen, and kidneys release EPO which stimulate the production of these. Excess production of them results in polycythemia, and their count is depressed in anemia. Produced in the bone marrow, they are biconcave and lack nuclei. For 10 points, identify these cells that contain hemoglobin, and help transport oxygen to tissues.	red blood cells [or RBCs; or erythrocytes]	Red_blood_cell	True
673	"The most important source for this man's life is Priscus, and the Battle of Nedao saw one his sons killed by Ardaric, who had earlier allied with this ruler as leader of the Gepids.  His other allies included Valamir, leader of the Ostrogoths, and he planned to attack the Visigothic kingdom of Tolouse with Valentinian III.  He succeeded his uncle Rua with his co-ruler and brother Bleda, and trouble started when Honoria sent this man an engagement ring and he demanded half the Western Roman Empire as a dowry.  He was defeated by Theodoric I and Flavius Aetius at the Battle of Chalons.  For 10 points, name this ""Scourge of God,"" the most famous leader of the Huns."	Attila the Hun	Huns	False
674	"The text ""Transmissions of the Lamp"" describes the lineages of this religion's followers. The ""Wake-up"" and ""Bloodstream"" sermons are attributed to one of its founders, who is said to have descended from the man who developed it after hearing the Flower Sermon. Its six patriarchs include Sengcan the author of the Plaform Sutra, Huineng, and it was brought to China by Bodhidharma. Two of its ""five houses"" include the Soto and the Rinzai, which differ on the way achieve satori, and it uses texts like The Gateless Gate and The Blue Cliff Record. For 10 points, identify this sect of Buddhism, which is noted for its use of koans and meditation."	"Zen Buddhism [accept Chan or Dhyana, prompt on ""Buddhism""]"	Zen	True
675	"The main narrative of this poem is interrupted by a ""loud uproar"" and ""vesper bell"" that bids the title character to pray, while he notes later that ""He prayeth best, who loveth best/ All things both great and small."" The title character falls asleep and dreams of buckets filled with dew, after he had previously blessed a nest of writhing sea snakes. In the opening section, the title character seizes ""one of three"" wedding guests and recounts his long journey at sea, including the ill-advised shooting of the Albatross. For 10 points, name this poem by Samuel Taylor Coleridge."	"""The Rime of the Ancient Mariner"""	The_Rime_of_the_Ancient_Mariner	True
676	One result of this effect was explained by the creation of quasiparticles in a quantum fluid by Laughlin, and Dyakonov and Perel predicted a version of it dependent on spin.  It can be used to find hole density in a semiconductor, and von Klitzing showed that under certain situations this effect is quantized.  This effect distinguishes between a negative current and a positive current flowing in the opposite direction, and it creates a Lorentz force, resulting in the deflection of charge carriers by a magnetic field.  For 10 points, name this effect in which a potential difference is created across a conductor by a perpendicular magnetic field.	Hall Effect [accept fractional quantum Hall effect or quantum Hall effect]	Hall_effect	True
677	"This composer had the violin play 2/4 against the persistent 6/8 beat of the orchestra in his work for Pablo Sarasate, Introduction and Rondo Capriccioso, while a Nubian love song he found in Luxor inspired his fifth piano concerto in F Major subtitled ""Egyptian."" In one work a violin enters playing an A chord against an E-flat chord tuned down a half step, which is answered by a xylophone solo representing a skeletons dance, and another work has movements titled ""Characters with Long Ears,"" ""Fossils,"" and ""The Swan."" For 10 points, name this composer of Danse Macabre and Carnival of the Animals."	Camille Saint-Saens	Violin_concerto	False
678	"One of this writer's narrators comments that woodcocks remind him of a mad woman who froze after being abandoned in a forest tied to her bed by vindictive soldiers, and a group of repentant prostitutes inspire an entire church congregation to weep during Constance's confirmation in ""Madame Tellier's Establishment."" The title character of one work gives her wine to nourish Mrs. Carre-Lamadon, before she is coerced into sleeping with a Prussian officer and another story ends when Jeanne Forestier reveals to Matthilde Loisel that the title object is a fake. For 10 points, name this author who penned ""Ball of Fat"" and ""The Necklace."""	Guy de Maupassant	The_Necklace	False
679	"A female author from this country wrote Miss Sophie's Diary. One author from this country wrote the collection Call to Arms, which included a work about a man who fears cannibals, A Madman's Diary, and one about a man who has a lot of ""spiritual victories,"" The True Story of Ah Q. Another author from here wrote the absurdist plays Signal Alarm and Bus Stop and the novel Soul Mountain, for which he won the 2000 Nobel. This country's Four Great Classical Novels include one about 108 bandits and one about the pilgrimage to India of a monk. The origin of Outlaws of the Marsh and Journey to the West, for 10 points, identify this country of Lu Xun and Gao Xingjian."	"People's Republic of China [accept Zhongguo or Zhonghua Remin Gongheguo; do not accept ""Republic of China,"" feel free to accept a magical psychic buzz with Ding Ling before ""this country""]"	Gao_Xingjian	False
680	"Margaret Atherton wrote about ""How [this man] Can Maintain that Snow is White,"" and in one work he argued against belief in fluxions while another discusses a ""visual language.""  In addition to writing The Analyst and Alciphron, he notably argued against abstraction of ideas and presented the likeness principle, while his ""master argument"" claimed that it is impossible to conceive a non-conceived object.  The author of Treatise Concerning the Principles of Human Knowledge, he believed that ""to be is to be perceived.""  For 10 points, name this Irish philosopher, the author of Three Dialogues Between Hylas and Philonus."	George Berkeley	George_Berkeley	True
681	"He wrote about Una Golden who marries Edward Schwirtz instead of Walter Babson in The Job, and a man discovers he is the descendent of Xavier Pic in Kingsblood Royal. In one work, Doremus Jessup tries to stop the political career of Buzz Windrip, while another of his characters survives a fire that destroys the ""Waters of Jordan Tabernacle"" and Sharon Falconer, after he seduces Lulu Baines at the Mizpah Seminary. This author of It Can't Happen Here and Elmer Gantry, also wrote about Erik Valborg's affair with Carol Kennicott, who fails to reform Gopher Prairie. For 10 points, name this author of Babbitt and Main Street."	Sinclair Lewis	Babbitt_(novel)	False
682	"He defended Say's law by arguing against the possibility of general gluts, and he called for a stable monetary policy in Proposals for an Economic and Secure Currency.  A concept developed by Robert Barro which states that equilibrium consumption is invariant if the government is financed by tax increases or deficit spending is known as his ""equivalence,"" and he also introduced diminishing marginal returns. In another work, he criticized Malthus' theory of rent, and that work also introduced the theory of comparative advantage.  For 10 points, identify this economist who wrote Principles of Political Economy and Taxation and advanced the ""iron law of wages."""	David Ricardo	Thomas_Robert_Malthus	False
683	A Mayan example of these ate the heads of the men that Hurakan destroyed and was known as Camulatz. A three-legged one in Asian myths was variously known as Samjoko or Yatagarasu. One of these was the counterpart of Behemoth and Leviathan called Ziz. An Egyptian example of them rested on the benben pillar, and another assisted Prince Zal with the birth of Rostam. In addition to the Bennu and the Simurgh, other examples include the elephant-eating Roc and a group of part-brass ones that were the target of Heracles' sixth labor, the Stymphalian ones. For 10 points, name these creatures whose other mythical exemplars include the phoenix and Raven.	birds	Heracles	False
684	"Ira Gitler first coined the term ""sheets of sound"" to describe the style of this jazz musician, who ended one album with the ""musical narration"" of a poem that begins ""I will do all I can to be worthy of Thee, Oh Lord."" He collaborated with McCoy Tyner and Elvin Jones in his namesake quartet on albums such as First Meditations and Gleanings, and his famous chord substitutions based on major third cycles known as his namesake ""changes"" are first seen in the track ""Lazy Bird"" on Blue Train and later seen in ""Countdown"" and ""Naima."" For 10 points, name this saxophonist, whose albums include Giant Steps and A Love Supreme."	John William Coltrane	Kind_of_Blue	False
685	"This religion's scriptures include the four books of Athlyi, which form the Holy Piby, as well as The Promise Key. Its members reject ""-isms"" and use words such as livification, overstanding, and upfulness. Ingesting shellfish, pork, or alcohol is prohibited because they turn the temple of the body into a cemetery, according to its diet, called I-tal. Its holidays include ""reasonings,"" and adherents are taught to reject ""Babylon"" and that corruption can be burned out of the heart by smoking ganja, or cannabis. For 10 points, name this religion whose prophets include Marcus Garvey, which believes that Jah, or God, took the form of Haile Selassie."	Rastafari movement or Rastafarianism	Haile_Selassie	False
686	"This person and Charles Tomlinson built sonnet sequences upon each other's lines in Airborn. One of his works describes the government of his country as ""The Philanthropic Ogre"", and he examined contemporary poetry in The Pears of the Elm and The Bow and the Lyre. His best-known prose work has chapters entitled ""From Independence to the Revolution"" and ""The Day of the Dead,"" and a trip to Galta in India inspired a work about Hanuman, The Monkey Grammarian. His most famous long poem consists of 584 lines, matching with the 584 days of the Aztec calendar. For 10 points, name this Mexican author of Sunstone and The Labyrinth of Solitude."	Octavio Paz Lozano	Hanuman	False
687	"His last work, based on R?e Thom's catastrophe theory, depicts three integral signs and is titled The Swallow's Tail. An optical illusion transforms the first of the titular animals seated on a lake into larger mammals in his Swans Reflecting Elephants. One of his paintings depicts an elephant in the background and two tigers over a naked woman in the foreground. This creator of Lobster Telephone also painted The Hallucinogenic Toreador and a ""disintegration"" of his most famous work which depicted the Cadaques and three melting clocks. For 10 points, name this surrealist artist of The Persistence of Memory."	Salvador Dali [or Salvador Domingo Felipe Jacinto Dal?i Dom?ech]	The_Persistence_of_Memory	False
688	One of this author's protagonists seeks his father in a classified ad before strangling Karima.  In another of his works, a young man kills his boss on the same day that his country's president is shot.  This author of The Search and The Day the Leader Died wrote about Hamida, who is lured into prostitution by Ibrahim Faraj in one work, and another novel centers on sons that are cast out of their father's house who live in an alley. Midaq Alley and Children of Gebelawi, for 10 points, are works by this author of Sugar Street, Palace Walk, and Palace of Desire, which comprise his Cairo Trilogy.	Naguib Mahfouz	Naguib_Mahfouz	True
689	"This text is often paired with the Testimonies of Three Witnesses and Eight Witnesses. One section of this work centers on a group of people whose rulers included Coriantumr and Jared. Its first section details a man who receives a ""ball of curious workmanship"" after he and his father receive the ""Tree of Life"" vision. In addition to the books of Ether and Nephi, it describes the colonization of the Americas by the descendents of Lehi, and it contains an account of Jesus Christ's visit to the Americas after his death and resurrection. Originally inscribed in ""Reformed Egyptian"" on gold plates and translated by Joseph Smith, for 10 points, name this founding text of a Utah-based religion."	The Book of Mormon: Another Testament of Jesus Christ [accept The Book of Mormon: An Account Written by the Hand of Mormon upon Plates Taken from the Plates of Nephi]	Utah	False
690	"The soprano in this opera reminds herself that she ""must always be free"" in the aria ""E Strano! E Strano...Sempre Libera"" after the tenor proclaims his love in ""Un di felice, eterea."" The baritone sings ""Di Provenza il mar"" to convince his son to return to Provence, but instead he crashes a party hosted by Flora Bervoix, where he wins money in cards from his rival Baron Douphol. In the last act, the title character sings ""Adio del passato"" after reading a letter from Giorgio apologizing for breaking up her romance with his son, who impressed the title character by singing the Brindisi. For 10 points, Alfredo Germont is the lover of Violetta in what Verdi opera about a courtesan?"	La Traviata	La_traviata	True
691	"One of his protagonists refers to his sister as the ""Dark Girl of Long Alley"" and steals a gun from her Nazi lover to bury in a secret location. The title character of another work battles with the ""fruit thieves,"" dies by fastening himself to the anchor of a balloon, and refuses to eat his sister's snail soup. Those novels about Pin and Cosimo are The Baron in the Trees and The Path to the Nest of Spiders.  In another of his novels, Medardo of Terralba is split in half by a cannonball, and in another a plot about swapping suitcases devolves into a romance between Ludmilla and ""The Reader."" For 10 points, name this author of The Cloven Viscount and If On a Winter's Night a Traveler."	Italo Calvino	If_on_a_winter's_night_a_traveler	False
692	Birqat Karun is a lake found in the Al Fayyum region of this country. The Ras Mohammed National park is found at the southern tip of a peninsula belonging to this country, and the disputed Hala'ib triangle lies at the southwest corner of this country. The Kebira Crater is located along the western border of this country which is home to the Gilf-al-Kibr plateau. The Qatarra Depression contains several brackish oases, and manmade features include the Great and Little Bitter Lakes as well as a large dam on the First Cataract at Aswan that holds back Lake Nasser. Containing the cities of Luxor and Alexandria, for 10 points, identify this country with its capital at Cairo.	Egypt [or Al-Masr]	Gamal_Abdel_Nasser	False
693	He was once attacked and wounded by Parasurama, and in his incarnation as Vighnaraja, he rides the naga king Shesha. Garuda was once tasked with reacquiring an item this figure lost after being gazed upon by Sani. He is often depicted riding on a mouse, and the goad he holds in his upper right hand is used to remove obstacles from mankind. One story claims this figure married two women after he beat his brother Karttikeya in a race around the world. He was supposedly born from the dirt his mother wiped off of her leg while she was trying to take a bath in privacy from her husband. For 10 points, name this son of Shiva and Parvati, a Hindu god with the head of an elephant.	Lord Ganesha [accept Ganapati, Vinakaya, Lambodar, or Pillaiyar]	Shiva	False
694	"The tensor analog of this quantity can be diagonalized by defining a coordinate system along the principal axes, and its middle eigenvalue corresponds to unstable motion according to Euler's Equations of Motion.  The deflection of a cantilevered beam is inversely proportional to Young's modulus and this quantity.  It is given by ""cross-sectional area times the square of the radius of gyration"", and it can be found by the parallel axis theorem.  For a sphere it is equal to ""two-fifths m r squared"", while it has half the value for a disc that it has for a ring.  For 10 points, name this quantity symbolized ""I"", the rotational analog of mass."	mass moment of inertia [prompt on angular mass]	Leonhard_Euler	False
695	"In one work, this composer adapted the opening theme from the first section ""Arietta"" into a waltz for the last segment entitled, ""Remembrances,"" and he wrote an ""air"" in andante religioso for a work written ""in old style"" dedicated to a playwright. In addition to Lyric Pieces and the Holberg Suite, one of his works has sections titled ""Anitra's Dance"" and ""Morning Mood"" and a sharp cymbal crash represents the destruction of a mountain as trolls are chasing the title character in the movement, ""In the Hall of the Mountain King."" For 10 points, name this composer, who wrote the Peer Gynt Suites, a noted Norwegian."	Edvard Hagerup Grieg	Peer_Gynt	False
696	"This man claimed that if Hamlet were reported in a newspaper, it wouldn't be transcendent, showing that ""the expression of the object"" of art can transform tragedy into beauty. In one work he offered sprit, truth, essence, and matter as the four categories of reality, and he argued that no real knowledge can be gained in an ""instant of awareness"" in a work that asserts belief does not derive from reasoning, but is an inevitable idea necessary for a man to act. This thinker wrote A Sense of Beauty and Realms of Being. For 10 points, name this author of Skepticism and Animal Faith, who said, ""Those who cannot remember the past are condemned to repeat it."""	George Santayana	Hamlet	False
697	"One man in this work is offended when he cannot find the source of a name engraved on a cigarette case, and later quips that only relatives or creditors ring in a ""Wagnerian manner"" after his aunt finds that all of the cucumber sandwiches are gone. One character tells a man she just met that they've been engaged three months, and writes letters three times a week in her diary. Another character gets Reverend Chasuble to rechristen him. Miss Prism's revelation that she left a baby in a bag in a cloakroom leads Lady Bracknell to approve Gwendolen Fairfax's marriage to Jack Worthing. For 10 points, name this play about the significance of a certain name, by Oscar Wilde."	The Importance of Being Earnest	The_Importance_of_Being_Earnest	True
698	Sutherland's formula gives this quantity for ideal gases, and like thermal conductivity, it can be found by applying Green-Kubo relations to the Navier-Stokes transport coefficients. Euler's fluid equations assume a zero value for this quantity, and the Grashof number is inversely proportional to its square. The no-slip condition generally exacerbates its effects, and it has dynamic and kinematic varieties. The Reynolds number is inversely proportional to this quantity, and it is constant for Newtonian fluids. For 10 points, identify this quantity, the ratio of shear stress to shear velocity, used as a measure of a fluid's resistance to flow.	viscosity	Stress_(mechanics)	False
699	"One of his title characters has a vision of Enceladus' attack on the Mount of Titans before he drinks poison with his sister Isabel Banford. In another of his novels, Charlie Noble rejects Frank's loan, and the title character pretends to be an employee of the Seminole Widow, Orphan Society, and a beggar named Black Guinea; those works are Pierre; or the Ambiguities and The Confidence Man. One of his characters irritates Nipper and Ginger Nut, formerly worked at the Dead Letters Office, and uses the refrain ""I would prefer not to,"" while another quarrels with Claggart aboard the Indomitable. For 10 points, name this author of ""Bartleby the Scrivener,"" Billy Budd, and Moby Dick."	Herman Melville	Billy_Budd	False
700	"A dissimilarity characteristic for these objects is defined by Otter's theorem and is useful for analyzing Husimi ones. Rosa's conjecture concerns whether they may be gracefully labeled. The 2-3 version is a special variety of the B version of them. The zig, zig-zig, and zig-zag steps are used in creating the ""splay"" type of them, which uses much less memory than the AVL and red-black varieties. Kruskal and Prim name algorithms for finding their minimum spanning variety. For 10 points, name this class of graphs without double edges or cycles, which, in computer science, is a data structure that has a binary search variety, whose bottommost nodes are called leaves."	trees	Four_color_theorem	False
701	One of this man's works contains a naked man holding a bucket showering himself on a plain, while another features a man in a red uniform holding a cherry tree while a boy holds an axe. In addition to Sultry Night and Parson Weems' Fable, he depicted a white church in the middle of a dark town as a man on horseback hurries to the left in one painting, and another work shows the title figures standing in front of a copy of Washington Crossing the Delaware. For 10 points, name this painter of The Midnight Ride of Paul Revere and Daughters of Revolution, an American regionalist best known for a portrait of his dentist and his sister in American Gothic.	Grant Wood	Washington_Crossing_The_Delaware	False
702	The efficacy of the Boord olefin synthesis prevents ones with vicinal alkoxy groups from being synthesized. Particularly hindered ones react by single-electron transfer, but normally their namesake reaction uses two equivalents of them to generate a six-membered ring for a transition state. Reactions involving them must be carried out in aprotic solvents, and the only way to produce ones incorporating fluorine requires a metal powder named for Rieke. For 10 points, name these organometallic reagents, most commonly used as nucleophiles for reducing carbonyl groups to alcohols, which could be known as alkyl or aryl magnesium halides.	Grignard reagents [prompt on alkyl magnesium halides or aryl magnesium halides]	Grignard_reaction	False
703	"In this author's first novel, Eugene Dawn is driven to insanity by his work on the Vietnam Project. In his next novel, Magda, the daughter of a sheep farmer, clashes with her father for taking a black mistress. In addition to Dusklands and In the Heart of the Country, he wrote a work in which Susan Barton meets Friday and Cruso, Foe. He is better known for a novel about Melanie's affair with Professor David Lurie, which leads to the title condition, and another about the titular hare-lipped gardener, who escapes from a ""retraining camp"" hospital and returns to Cape Town. For 10 points, name this South African author of Disgrace and The Life and Times of Michael K."	John Maxwell Coetzee	Vietnam	False
704	"In Rabbinic sources, this ruler's name is accompanied by ""may his bones rot,"" and early in his reign he had Lusius Quietus and three other senators executed.  His original choice as successor was the tubercular Lucius Ceionius Commodus, who became Aelius Caesar.  He twice avoided war with Parthia and he put down Bar Kokhba's Revolt, but he also defified his drowned lover, the Greek youth Antinous. He built an extensive series of palisades between the Rhine and Danube after ceding much of the land his predecessor had conquered. For 10 points, name this emperor who was followed by Antoninus Pius, succeeded Trajan, and built a massive wall across Britain."	Hadrian [or Imperator Caesar Traianus Hadrianus Augustus or Publius Aelius Hadrianus]	Trajan	False
705	This compound participates in the Griesenbaum reaction along with pentane, which results in a tetra-substitution in a five member ring. Indigo trisulfonate can be used to quantitatively assess the presence of this compound in water. It participates in a reaction that follows the Criegee mechanism, and is a 1,3 dipolar cycloaddition reaction occurring in the presence of dichloromethane that creates ketones or aldehydes from alkenes. Having a blue color, it is formed during lightning, while its name comes from its foul smell and halocarbons are able to catalyze the degradation of this compound in the atmosphere. For 10 points, identify this allotrope of oxygen with three atoms.	ozone [accept: O3]	Alkene	False
706	"This poet wrote about a figure, who ""when he cried the little children died in the streets"" in ""Epitaph on a Tyrant."" One of his poems asserts that the ""The death of the poet was kept from his poems,"" and another poem juxtaposes a lover's na?e comment that ""love has no ending"" against the clocks that ""began to whir and chime"" pronouncing ""You cannot conquer Time.""  This author of ""In Memory of W.B. Yeats,"" and ""As I Walked Out One Evening"" wrote ""We must love one another or die"" in a poem that begins, ""I sit in one of the dives / on Fifty-second Street."" For 10 points, name this poet, who wrote ""September 1, 1939"" and ""The Unknown Citizen."""	Wystan Hugh Auden	W._B._Yeats	False
707	"One of his protagonists is chased by the ""Man with Queer Feet"" before experiencing a vision of Dick Humbird in a dark alley. That man's mother, Beatrice O'Hara, has an affair with Monsignor Darcy, who introduces him to literature with Thomas D'Invilliers. In another work the murder of Abe North leaves Nicole Warren hysterical, who later marries Tommy Barban after divorcing Dick Diver. In addition to writing about Amory Blaine in This Side of Paradise and Tender is the Night, another of his works ends when the prot??of Dan Cody is murdered to avenge Myrtle Wilson. For 10 points, what author wrote about Daisy Buchanan and Nick Carraway in The Great Gatsby?"	F. Scott Fitzgerald [Francis Scott Key Fitzgerald]	Tender_Is_the_Night	False
708	"In one section of this poem, it is noted that no ""trembling harp,"" ""tumbling hawk,"" or ""swift horse"" had ""emptied the earth of entire peoples."" Those lines come from its section named for the ""Last Survivor,"" which is considered to be the third of its ""four funerals."" Its closing scene dedicates a barrow to that title figure, who as a youth allegedly lost a swimming contest with Breca in the North Sea. The title figure receives two weapons that eventually fail, acquiring Naegling from Hygelac and Hrunting from Unferth in, for 10 points, which epic poem in which the title figure fights a dragon after rescuing Heorot from the ravages of Cain's descendent Grendel?"	Beowulf	Grendel	False
709	These objects can have an internal boundary named for Cauchy, and they can also be extremal according to the Reissner-Nordstrom metric.  If the charge to mass ratio is any higher, they can violate the Cosmic Censorship Hypothesis. Their entropy was conjectured to be inversely proportional to the Planck length squared by Bekenstein, who sometimes names a process in which spontaneous pair production results in them giving off energy, known as Hawking radiation. For 10 points, name these objects, which occur above the Chandraseker limit, consisting of an event horizon surrounding a singularity, and which are so massive that no light can escape.	"black holes [accept singularities before ""Planck length"" is read]"	Hawking_radiation	False
710	"This man explored what effect skyscrapers have on urban life in ""Vertical City,"" and he studied people who communicate by repeating radioed messages, cyranoids.  He studied the responses to people cutting into lines or asking for someone to give up their seat on the subway, and he asked people to send packages to those most likely to know the target in his small world experiment.  Variations on his most famous experiment showed higher stress rates in women, though they were just as likely to continue operating the machine.  For 10 points, name this man who had people administer electric shocks in his obedience experiment."	Stanley Milgram	Milgram_experiment	False
711	A cruder form of it was proposed by Wilhelmy in 1858, and its namesake observed the implications of this statement when equilibrium of reactive and unreactive molecules is considered in the van't Hoff equation. A T to m term is sometimes introduced to it, as a quantity in it is approximated to be independent of temperature. That quantity accounts for the rate and orientation of collisions is called the pre exponential factor. One form of it states that the natural log of the equilibrium constant has a inverse relationship with one over T, and it allows one to relate the equilibrium constant with activation energy. For 10 points, identify this equation named for the Swedish chemist.	Arrhenius equation	Arrhenius_equation	True
712	"One of this man's compositions includes a saucy dance in which one character asks ""Got any money?"" after which a disheveled old man chases her around saying ""All that matters is love.""  He wrote a symphonic poem for a former Regent-President of his country, and he wrote a piece for the Basel Chamber Orchestra called Music for Strings, Percussion and Celesta.  This composer of Kossuth and The Miraculous Mandolin also wrote a five-movement Concerto for Orchestra and an opera about Judith, who insists that the title character open the doors of his palace. For 10 points, name this Hungarian composer of the opera Duke Bluebeard's Castle."	Bela Victor Janos Bartok	Piano_concerto	False
713	"When this ruler visited Rome at age five, Pope Leo IV dressed him in the robes and sword belt of a Roman consul.  He established a new legal code with the Book of Dooms, and at the Battle of Ashdown he defeated the forces of the man with whom he would later sign the Peace of Wedmore.  He personally translated from Latin works such as Bede's Ecclesiastical History and Boethius's Consolation of Philosophy.  The fifth son of Aethelwulf, he defeated Guthrum's forces at Edington, pushing them back into Northumbria and East Anglia and retaking London in about 885.  For 10 points, name this king of Wessex, the only ""Great"" English king."	Alfred the Great	Alfred_the_Great	True
714	The buildup to this conflict saw one side occupied with the Uskok War, and the Smolensk War is sometimes considered an episode in it.  Gabor Bethlen took advantage of this conflict to carve out some land, and it also involved Maximilian I of Bavaria.  Christian IV signed the Treaty of Lubeck to end Denmark's involvement in this war, and the Battle of White Mountain ended its Bohemian Phase, which began with a Defenestration of Prague.  Commanders in this war included the Count of Tilly, Wallenstein, and Gustavus Adolphus.  For 10 points, name this war between Catholics and Protestants in the Holy Roman Empire that ended with the Peace of Westphalia.	Thirty Years' War	Gustavus_Adolphus	False
715	In one of his novels, Florentine Vivier murders Lord Frederick, leaving her son Hyancinth to Miss Pynsent, and in another novel Mrs. Bread gives the title character evidence that Madame de Bellegarde murdered her husband, which he could use to blackmail Claire de Cintr? In addition to writing The Princess Casamassima and describing Christopher Newman in The American, another of his works climaxes when Countess Gemini reveals that Pansy is the illegitimate daughter of Madame Merle and the title character's husband Gilbert Osmond. For 10 points, name this author, who wrote about Lambert Strether and Isabel Archer in The Ambassadors and The Portrait of a Lady.	Henry James	The_Ambassadors	False
716	"This man's works include a number of buildings on Nuns' Island in Montreal and a building which features a translucent onyx wall, the Villa Tugendhat. While working at IIT, he designed the Farnsworth House, and his ""skin and bones"" architecture is exemplified by such works as the Lake Shore Drive Apartments. He and Lilly Reich created the Barcelona Chair for his German Pavilion, while another of his designs features three-position window blinds and the Four Seasons Restaurant, and is located on Park Avenue. For 10 points, identify this last chairman of the Bauhaus, who said ""less is more"" and collaborated with Phillip Johnson on the Seagram Building."	Ludwig Mies van der Rohe [accept Maria Ludwig Michael Mies]	Ludwig_Mies_van_der_Rohe	True
717	In one of this man's novels, the owner of the After the Show Retreat is married to the radical politician Yuken Noguchi. Another novel sets the Daphnis and Chloe story on Uta-Jima and stars the lovers Hatsue and Shinji. In addition to After the Banquet and The Sound of Waves, this author wrote a novel in which Fusako falls in love with Ryuji, the titular Sailor Who Fell from Grace with the Sea. More famously, he wrote a series of novels about Honda and Kiyaoki's births and rebirths, as well as a novel about Mizoguchi, a young monk who sets fire to the titular building. For 10 points, identify this author of The Sea of Fertility tetralogy and The Temple of the Golden Pavilion.	Mishima Yukio [accept in either order]	The_Temple_of_the_Golden_Pavilion	False
718	"In one of his operas, Mamud switches his favored son Melindo at birth with the son of the Sultana Rustena. Along with Truth and Ordeal, he featured a female chorus playing Assyrian soldiers in his oratorio based on the book of Judith, Juditha Triumphans.  He showcased four sets violin concertos alternating with a pairwise arrangement of keys in his L'Estro Armonico. His Mandolin Concerto in C Major is often paired with his most famous work, which comes from the collection of concerti grossi, The Contest Between Harmony and Invention. For 10 points, identify this Italian composer, who included the movements ""L'inverno,"" and ""La Primavera,"" in The Four Seasons."	Antonio Vivaldi	Violin_concerto	False
719	This economist posited an early form of the Quantity Theory of Money in Tract on Monetary Reform.  He proposed that recessions can get worse in the presence of near-zero nominal interest due to liquidity traps, and that an increase in GDP can result from initial investment through the multiplier effect.  He argued against reparations in a work critical of the Treaty of Versailles, The Economic Consequences of the Peace, and in another work for increased government spending to combat recessions.  For 10 points, name this writer of The General Theory of Employment, Interest and Money.	John Maynard Keynes	Treaty_of_Versailles	False
720	"The title character of this play asserts she wants one character to return with ""vine-leaves in his hair"" before threatening to burn another woman's hair off. One character buys a villa that once belonged to the Cabinet Member, Secretary Falk, with his Aunt Juliana's help, and he spends his honeymoon researching the domestic handicrafts of Brabant. Thea Elvsted plans to reconstruct a manuscript that was burned by the title character, who is later blackmailed by Judge Brack, who knows she loaned one of her father's pistols to Eilert Lovberg. For 10 points, the wife of George Tasman achieves a ""beautiful death"" by committing suicide in this play by Henrik Ibsen."	Hedda Gabler	Hedda_Gabler	True
721	The Kirirom National Park is found in the Elephant Mountains which lie in this country's southwest region. One can visit the Rorka Kondal pagoda in the Kratie province, while the Baset and the Banom temples can be found in the city of Battambang. During the monsoon season, the most notable body of water in this country vastly increases in size due to the change in the flow of its namesake river, the Tonle Sap. Its capital sits at the confluence of the Tonle Sap and Mekong rivers. For 10 points, identify this Southeast Asian nation bordered by Vietnam, Laos, and Thailand, which has its capital at Phnomh Penh.	Kingdom of Cambodia	Cambodia	True
722	In Ephesus, this man enraged a mob of silversmiths by preaching against their idols of Artemis. Along with Barnabus, this man healed a disabled man in Lystra and was mistaken for a Greek deity, while his divinity was proven when he survived a snake bite while shipwrecked on the island of Malta. His assistants were Timothy and Titus, and he once sent the slave Onesimus to take a dispatch to Philemon. Along with Peter, he is the focus of the book of Acts, and he had a notable conversion experience when God revealed Jesus to him on the road to Damascus. For 10 points, identify this saint and Apostle who ministered to the Gentiles and who wrote a number of Epistles.	Saint Paul the Apostle [or Saint Paul of Tarsus, prompt on Saul]	Paul_the_Apostle	True
723	In the 1860s, this country started a campaign to assimilate the Aracunia region, and a civil war in this country saw the ship Itata load up arms in California and threaten the rule of a U. S. backed President Jose Balmaceda. It also gained the Tarapaca province by the terms of a treaty which also required a plebiscite to determine the sovereignty of the Tacna and Arica provinces. Yet another ruler of this country came to power after he joined forces with Jose de San Martin and defeated the Spanish at Chacabuco, Bernardo O'Higgins. For 10 points, identify this country whose Marxist leader Salvador Allende was toppled in a coup led by Augusto Pinochet.	Republic of Chile	Augusto_Pinochet	False
724	This figure allegedly heard the cries of Stheno and Euryale and imitated them on a reed, thus inventing the flute. She sent a plague to strike the Locrians and sent the storm which killed Ajax the Lesser after he raped Cassandra in her temple, while Erichthonius was born after Hephaestus attempted to rape her. This goddess gave the gift of prophecy to Tiresias, who she had earlier blinded for seeing her naked. She turned Medusa into a Gorgon and, after losing a weaving contest, turned Arachne into a spider. For 10 points, identify this goddess of wisdom and daughter of Metis, born from the head of her father Zeus, who won a contest with Poseidon for control of her namesake city.	Pallas Athena [accept either; accept Athene, Asana, or Cydonia]	Medusa	False
725	Paleophragmodictya are among the oldest life forms in this phylum. Cladorhizadae are a carnivorous family in this phylum, while some of its members use the totipotent archeocytes to reproduce. Members of this phylum have excretory structures called oscula, and their silica-based skeletal structure is secreted by sclerocytes. Apopyles are pores which allow water to enter the atrium from the choanocyte chamber in the syconoid arrangement for them, and they are also found in asconoid and leuconoid types. All members of this phylum possess a gelatinous tissue called the mesohyl. For 10 points, identify this phylum of animals commonly referred to as sponges.	porifera [accept sponges until mentioned]	Sponge	True
726	Experiments by Francisco-Miguel Marqu? et al. suggested the possibility of a stable cluster of four of them.  Brockhouse developed a method of spectroscopy using these particles, and work leading to their discovery showed that beryllium rays could remove particles from paraffin wax and was performed by the Joliot-Curies.  An antineutrino is released when these undergo a certain type of decay, and free ones have a lifetime of approximately fifteen minutes.  They undergo beta-minus decay, and are created by electron capture.  Discovered in 1932 by James Chadwick, for 10 points, name this electrically neutral subatomic particle, found in the nucleus with protons.	neutrons	Electron	False
727	"He claims it is impossible for an omnipotent, loving God to be in control of the world, but possible for a weaker God to exist in his Three Essays on Religion. One of his works lays out five principles of inductive reasoning, while another argues that freedom is good for women if it is good for men. In addition to System of Logic, he wrote a work that uses dolors and hedons to calculate the ""Greatest Happiness Principle"" and claims that ""actions are right in proportion as they tend to promote happiness."" The author of The Subjection of Women, for 10 points, name this man, who outlined a philosophy practiced by Jeremy Bentham in his book Utilitarianism."	John Stuart Mill	Utilitarianism	False
728	"This person adapted the passacaglia from Bach's Nach dir, Herr, verlanget mich for a theme that appears in the notable chaconne of the last movement of his Fourth Symphony in E minor, while he created twenty-one pieces for piano-four-hands based on folk songs in his Hungarian Dances, and featured two sharp chords to begin his Tragic Overture. His first symphony is often referred to as ""Beethoven's Tenth,"" while another of his works quotes the hymn ""Gaudeamus Igitur"" and was written to commemorate an honorary degree from the University of Breslau.  For 10 points, name this composer of Academic Festival Overture and a namesake lullaby."	Johannes Brahms	Symphony_No._5_(Beethoven)	False
729	This compound reacts with sodium chloride to create an industrial reagent in the Mannheim process, and it is used to produce a nitronium ion by protonating nitric acid, which catalyzes the addition of nitro groups to aromatic compounds. Usually used to work up intermediates in the Nef reaction, a common lab demonstration relies on its ability to dehydrate sucrose into pure carbon. This compound and its generating gas is called oleum when found in solution, and it is produced in a process whose central oxidation step is catalyzed by a Vanadium oxide catalyst in the contact process. For 10 points, identify this diprotic acid with formula H2SO4	sulfuric acid [or sulphuric acid; prompt on oil of vitriol]	Nitric_acid	False
730	"Leber optic neuropathy was the first disease to be associated with this organelle, while Kearns Sayre syndrome is caused by defects in these which leads to Ophthalmoparesis and ptosis. The Tom and Tim proteins are involved with translocation of proteins across their membranes. Cytochrome C is also found within these structures, and is released into the cell to trigger apoptosis. These organelles have two membrane systems with the inner one possessing folds called cristae, and they possess their own genome which is used to analyze matrilineal ancestry. For 10 points, name this organelle, often referred to as the ""power source"" of the cell."	mitochondrion [or mitochondria]	Cell_membrane	False
731	In chapter fifteen of this novel, the waitress Mae sells a begging man and his two sons a loaf of bread and two pieces of candy for a discount price. One character sees her suitor Herb beaten to death by a shovel by her future husband Connie Rivers, and later she gives birth to a stillborn child in a flooded boxcar, while another character is a former preacher, who is killed for leading a labor strike. Both Jim Casy and Rose of Sharon join Grandma, who dies during the trek across the Mojave desert, and Ruthie, Al, and Tom in the flight from Oklahoma. 10 points, name this novel about the Joad family, written by John Steinbeck.	The Grapes of Wrath	The_Grapes_of_Wrath	True
732	A similar reaction to it sees the addition of an R group at the alpha carbon of an ester and is named for Horner and this reaction's namesake. One variation of this reaction uses a proton donor to reduce a carbon-lithium bond formed due to excess lithium to selectively yielding of the E type of product, and is called the Schlosser modification. It sees the formation of the zwitterionic betaines which undergo an oxaphosphetane intermediate, and phosphine oxide is a by-product of this reaction which usually yields Z alkenes. For 10 points, name this reaction that uses an aldehyde or ketone and a phosphorus ylide to produce alkenes and is named after a German chemist.	Wittig reaction	Alkene	False
733	In one of his works, a bow, quiver, and sword hang above the white robed title figure while five figures look on as Jesus performs the titular Raising of Lazarus. He painted his wife as the model of a woman who drank her husband Masolus of Carnia's ashes, Artemisia, and he painted a man with his right hand placed on the title figure's breast in The Jewish Bride. He also painted the author of Metaphysics with his hand on the head of a statue as well as the marching company of Franz Banning Cocq. For 10 points, name this artist of Aristotle Contemplating the Bust of Homer and The Nightwatch who also painted a dissection in The Anatomy Lesson of Dr. Tulp.	Rembrandt Harmenszoon van Rijn [accept either underlined answer]	The_Anatomy_Lesson_of_Dr._Nicolaes_Tulp	False
734	This figure once fended off an attack by the centaurs Hylaeus and Rhaecus, after which she was insulted by Eurypylus and Iphicles. This woman once made love in a temple of Cybele, which led to her and her husband being turned into lions. One of this figure's sons, a friend of Telephus, was one of the Seven against Thebes; that son was Parthenopaeus. When Althea's sisters attempted to take from her a fur she won for drawing first blood at a hunt, their nephew Meleager killed them. Later, this woman  was distracted when Hippomenes threw three golden apples, causing her to lose a footrace. For 10 points, identify this only female Argonaut and hunter of the Calydonian Boar.	Atalanta	Atalanta	True
735	He wrote about Mrs. Placentia and Diaph Silkworm in a play about Lady Loadstone, The Magnetic Lady. In another play Dauphine tricks his uncle Morose into marrying Epicoene, who is actually a boy, while Captain Bobadill teaches Master Matthew how to duel after Edward Knowell travels to meet Wellbred in Every Man in His Humour. In one of his plays Face allows Doll Common and Subtle into Lovewit's house where they dupe Epicure Mammon, and in another play Bonario sees the title character attempt to rape Celia, while earlier Mosca convinces everyone that the title character is dying. For 10 points, name this author of The Alchemist and Volpone.	Benjamin or Ben Jonson	Volpone	False
736	"This belief's adherents trust that the third savior Saoshyant will bring about the ""final renovation."" Vishtaspa was the protector of their founder, who taught about the conflict between truth and lies, known as asha and druj. This religion's first man is Gayomart, and one sect of it believes in the timeless, apathetic god Zurvan. Hymns of this religion include the Gathas and the Yashts, which can be found in the Yasna. Parsi practitioners of it are placed in towers of silence when they die, and its sacred texts are found in the Zend-Avesta. For 10 points, name this faith that centers on the conflict between Ahriman and Ahura Mazda and was formed by a namesake Persian prophet."	Zoroastrianism	Zoroastrianism	True
737	"This work discusses the growing importance of burghers in a section that explores the rise of towns after the fall of the Roman Empire.  This work discusses the advantages of founding new colonies and uses a comparison of French and Portuguese wine to argue against protectionist tariffs in its fourth book, ""Of Systems of Political Economy,"" which argues against the mercantilist system.  Its first section supports the division of labor and discusses a pin factory, while it later argues that individuals acting due to self interest will benefit the market via the ""invisible hand.""  For 10 points, name this major work of Adam Smith."	An Inquiry into the Nature and Causes of the Wealth of Nations	The_Wealth_of_Nations	True
738	In this novel, one character discovers that the legendarily pious invalid Madame Stahl stays in bed to hide her stubby legs. The title character is stunned to meet Sappho Sholtz, and earlier breaks into tears when the horse Frou-Frou trips and breaks its back while trying to race Gladiator. One character is induced to trust the psychic Landau by the insidious tutor Lydia, who tries to prevent the title character from bringing gifts to her son Seryoza. Stiva's infidelities upset Dolly, who encourages Kitty's marriage with the plain Konstantin Levin. For 10 points, name this novel, in which the title character hooks up with Count Vronsky and jumps in front of a train, by Leo Tolstoy.	Anna Karenina	Anna_Karenina	True
739	"Vaihinger discussed the relation between Swedenborg and this man's concept of two worlds, in a commentary on this man's Dreams of a Spirit Seer. He proposed the creation of a league to mediate international disputes in his essay ""Perpetual Peace,"" and defined ratiocination as the judgment of a predicate with its subject in ""The False Subtlety of the Four Syllogistic Figures."" He defined his best-known concept by claiming that nothing can be called good without qualification ""except a good will"" in his Foundations of the Metaphysics of Morals.  For 10 points, name this author of The Critique of Judgment and Critique of Pure Reason who created the ""categorical imperative."""	Immanuel Kant	Last_Judgment	False
740	This ruler allied with Spain against France via the Treaty of Westminster, and he won a victory at the Battle of the Spurs during the War of the Holy League as well as a defeat of the Scottish at Flodden Field.  One of his advisors secured peace among Europe's major powers through the Treaty of London, and he met with Francis I at the Field of the Cloth of Gold.  His advisors included Thomas Cranmer, Cardinal Wolsey, and Thomas Cromwell, who helped this leader pass the Act of Supremacy and establish the Church of England.  For 10 points, name this English king who was married to Catherine of Aragon, Anne Boleyn, and four other women.	Henry VIII	Henry_VIII	True
741	"This composer's tone poems include one in which the title demon murders a child, The Water Goblin, and his first symphony is titled after the ""Bells of Zlonice."" He quotes the song series ""The Cypresses"" at the end of his Cello Concerto in B minor, which is probably the most frequently-played cello concerto today. This composer also wrote the American String Quartet, which was inspired by his time in Spillville, Iowa; that also provided inspiration of a symphony he wrote that was based on the Song of Hiawatha and African American spirituals. For 10 points, name this composer of the Carnival Overture, some Slavonic Dances, and his 9th symphony, From the New World."	Antonin Leopold Dvorak	Cello	False
742	This man lends his name to an integration method which finds optimal points described by roots of the orthogonal polynomial, his namesake quadrature. One unit named for him is equal to ten to the negative fourth Weber per meter squared. A statement named for him implies the non-existence of magnetic monopoles. Another statement developed by him yields the universal gravitational law when applied to the gravitational field and reduces to Coulomb's law for point charges. For 10 points, identify this scientist whose most famous law states that the net flux through a closed surface is proportional to the charge enclosed by the surface.	Carl Friedrich Gauss	Magnetic_monopole	False
743	"One character in this work is mocked when Kat shouts ""Change at Lohne"" and attacks him with a bedcover when he is coming home from his favorite pub. One of the protagonist's friends mourns that he will never become head forester, and gives away his boots. Some of the main character's other friends include the locksmith Tjaden and the peat-digger Haie. The protagonist feels obligated to lie to Kemmerich's mother, and stabs Gerard Duval when they both hide in the same shell hole. The protagonist dies on an otherwise uneventful day. For 10 points, name this work about Paul Baumer's World War I experiences, written by Erich Maria Remarque."	All Quiet on the Western Front [or Im Westen nichts Neues]	All_Quiet_on_the_Western_Front	True
744	"In one of this man's works, Thomas Hudson comes to terms with the death of his kids and hunts for a damaged German boat. He wrote a work in which Harry Morgan runs contraband, and also wrote of Robert and Maria, who clash with Paolo, in the stories ""Islands in the Stream"" and ""True at First Light."" Another short story by this author sees Al and Max discuss murdering the boxer Ole Andreson. That work is ""The Killers,"" which includes his recurring character Nick Adams. This man's longer works include To Have and Have Not and one in which Manolin assists the fisherman Santiago. For 10 points, name this author of A Farewell to Arms and The Old Man and the Sea."	Ernest Hemingway	Lewis_H._Morgan	False
745	This man painted a work in two panels which shows the title figures intently discussing about the texts in their hands and is called The Four Apostles. A lion rests on the floor in the foreground as the title figure stare intently at his work sitting at a desk in his St. Jerome in His Study. One work depicts an angel sitting on a wheel near a ladder and dog by the feet of a woman, and also contains an hourglass, a sphere, and a Latin square, while another work a decrepit figure holds a trident at the bottom left as the titular quartet tramples over some people. For 10 points, identify this German artist of several woodcuts such as Melancolia I and Four Horseman of the Apocalypse.	Albrecht Durer	Jerome	False
746	One of this man's protagonists sees a giant chrysanthemum that irradiates everything at the exact moment his father dies, and he wrote a short story in which a young boy named Harelip helps attend to a shot-down black airman.  In one of his novels, a man named Bird desires to flee to Africa instead of facing his handicapped newborn son.  He also wrote a novel in which Mitsusaburo and Takashi return to their great-uncle's village, in which the protagonist first thinks of the titular sound when he finds his friend hanged with a cucumber up his anus.  For 10 points, name this Japanese author of Nip the Buds, Shoot the Kids, A Personal Matter and The Silent Cry.	Kenzaburo Oe [accept in either order]	The_Chrysanthemum_and_the_Sword	False
747	"The Cadiot- Chodkiewicz coupling links two of these in the presence of copper (I) chloride catalyst and a base, while in a namesake homologation. The Cory-Fuchs reaction generates these from aldehydes, while reacting them with mercury salt in water yields enols. They can be synthesized by the dehydrohalogenation of vicinal dihalides, and hydrogenating one of these in the presence of palladium on calcium carbonate ""poisoned"" with quinilone, also known as Lindlar's catalyst. For 10 points, identify this class of compounds, the simplest example of which is acetylene, characterized by a carbon-carbon triple bond."	{alkynes} [grudgingly accept {acetylenes} until mentioned]	Carbon	False
748	"One of his works claims that twelve categories of human understanding posited in the Critique of Judgment are reducible to causality.  His last work, a set of ""stray yet systematically arranged thoughts on a variety of subjects,"" includes sections ""On Din and Noise"" and ""Additional Remarks on the Doctrine of the Suffering of the World.""  This author of Parerga and Paralipomena wrote On the Fourfold Root of the Principle of Sufficient Reason, and another work argues that art tries to represent the Platonic ideal of an object and that works expands Kant's ""Ding an Sich"" to the whole universe. For 10 points, supposed pessimist, the author of The World as Will and Idea."	Arthur Schopenhauer	Immanuel_Kant	False
749	This ruler's reign saw a migration led by Nekrasov during the Bulavin Rebellion as well as the rise to power of both Count Golovkin and Peter Tolstoi. Vasily Galitzine controlled power for part of this ruler's early reign after one of two revolts led by this ruler's half-sister Sophia and the Streltsy, whom this ruler would later disband.  This ruler shared power with his retarded half-brother Ivan until that man's death, and he had his son Alexei executed.  He led several expeditions against Azov in order to gain a port on the Black Sea, and likewise fought to gain Baltic Sea possessions from Charles XII.  For 10 points, name this victor in the Great Northern War and westernizer of Russia.	Peter the Great [or Peter I]	Peter_the_Great	True
750	One group of species in this phylum became hermatypic during the Middle Triassic, and palytoxin was first isolated from a species in this phylum. The order Rhyzostomea includes organisms with mouths found along their arms, such as the Cassiopeia. Members of one class possess a tissue called the velarium which aids in locomotion, and the largest class in this phylum includes sea pansies and sea fans and is called Anthozoa. Members of this phylum possess a structure called the operculum, within which nematocysts are found, and members go through both polyp and medusa stages. For 10 points, name this phylum which includes anemones, hydras, and jellyfish.	Cnidarians	Cnidaria	True
751	One of his works depicts a woman with a cage of doves exiting the title place as Jesus smacks a money-changer. In another of his works, a red-tunic'd Jesus looks towards the sky as several people mock him. In addition to The Purification of the Temple and Disrobing of Christ, one of his paintings shows John the Baptist extending his arms as cherubs bring white clothes to several naked figures, and inspired Picasso's Demoiselles d'Avignon.  In addition to Opening of the Fifth Seal, he painted a dark sky a green hillside on whose top sits the Alcazar, in his painting View of Toledo. For 10 points, identify this Spanish artist of The Burial of Count Orgaz, originally from Crete.	El Greco [or Domenikos Theotokopolous]	Jesus	False
752	One polity involved in this conflict was led for a brief period by the Duke of Caxias, who helped the eventual winners gain control of Humaita, and it also saw battles fought at Tuyuti while its final battle took place at Cerro Cora. The turning point of this conflict occurred at the Battle of Riachuelo, a victory for Admiral Barosso in which the navy of the landlocked aggressor nation, led by the dictator Francisco Solano Lopez, was decimated. For 10 points, name this South American conflict in which a large portion of the Paraguayan male population was killed in defeat against the namesake group of Argentina, Brazil, and Uruguay.	War of the Triple Alliance [accept Paraguayan War until Paraguay is mentioned]	Paraguayan_War	True
753	This figure was a close analog of the wind god Ehecatl. Cihuacoatl aided him in grinding up the bones of older races to begin the fifth age of mankind, and this deity either disappeared on a raft of snakes or got exiled by his rival. He jumped onto a funeral pyre, causing his heart to become the morning star, after being tricked by Tezcatlipoca. Often conflated with the Mayan Kukulcan, this god's twin brother was the dog-headed skeletal psychopomp Xolotl (sho-LOT-tul), and he was the son of either Coatlicue by herself or Mixcoatl and Xochiquetzal (sho-chi-KET-zal). For 10 points, name this Atzec sky god, often depicted as a plumed serpent, not to be confused with Hernan Cortes.	"Quetzalcoatl [accept Quetzalcohuatl; don't accept ""Quetzalcoatlus"" because that's a pterosaur]"	Tezcatlipoca	False
754	"This man wrote about the pursuit of social honor in ""Class, Status, Party,"" and he defined a state as an entity with a monopoly on the legitimate use of physical force in ""Politics as Vocation.""  He wrote about ""The Arena of Normative and De Facto Powers"" in a work often identified as a revision of Marxism, Economy and Society.  He discussed a certain people's concept of ""calling"" in a work which also talks about asceticism and posits a link based on the need for worldly success to justify predestination.  For 10 points, name this man who argued that Calvinism is tied to economic success, the German author of The Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism."	Max Weber	Max_Weber	True
755	"One variety of them formed from secondary imines such as pyrimidine are named for Zincke. Two equivalents of these compounds yield a carboxylic acid and a primary alcohol in a disproportion reaction named for Cannizaro. They are characterized by an NMR shift of about 9 to 10 ppm, and their oxidation in the presence of a diamine-silver complex yields a ""silver mirror"" in the Tollens test. For 10 points, identify this functional group which features a carbon double bonded to an oxygen atom and single bonded to a hydrogen atom, exemplified by methanal and ethanal."	aldehyde	Silver	False
756	One of this nation's cities celebrates the Palo de Mayo festival and another city contains the tamarind tree of the Sutiaba and the cathedral of Benito de Baltondano. In addition to Bluefields and Leon, this country includes the Islas de Maiz to the east, the Tipitapa River which joins its two large lakes, and the Cordillera Isabella to the north. The San Juan River forms a part of the southern border of this nation, whose city of Puerto Cabezas is found in a region named for an insect. For 10 points, name this Central American country, home to the Mosquito coast, that lies between Costa Rica and Honduras with capital at Managua.	Nicaragua	Honduras	False
757	"One portion of it alludes to Cicero's mention of a judge, who would routinely ask accusers ""cui bono"" or who benefits, from an action.  In addition to considering the prevalence of ignorance in Of the Kingdom of Darkness, this work discusses a precursor of the ex post facto and states that ""No law, made after a Fact done, can make it a Crime."" It argues that there is no injustice in a state of war, clarifying that Bellum omnium contra omnes, or the war of all against all, is inevitable unless a strong sovereign is present, while its first section describes life in the state of nature as ""solitary, poor, nasty, brutish, and short"". For 10 points, name this best-known work of Thomas Hobbes."	Leviathan, or The Matter, Forme and Power of a Common Wealth Ecclesiasticall and Civil	Leviathan_(Hobbes_book)	False
758	The Duhem-Margules equation can be used to derive it and a similar relation, and this law can be related to the Lewis-Randall rule by the Gibbs-Duhem equation. Its proportionality constant gives a relation between the chemical potential of solute atoms and infinite dilution; that constant is determined experimentally by measurements on a liquid-vapor equilibrium and the value depends on temperature as well as the solute-solvent pair involved. It explains decompression sickness in divers and the fizzing of soda when a bottle is opened. For 10 points, name this law of chemistry that relates the dissolved concentration of a gas to its partial pressure above the solvent.	Henry's law	Solubility	False
759	"This composer created one of the very first roles of the Luth?l instrument in his Tzigane, and his piano duet written for Mimi and Jean Godebski is entitled Mother Goose. ""The Valley of Bells"" and ""A Boat on the Ocean"" are two sections of his difficult Miroirs, and he included ""Ondine"" and ""Le Gibet"" in his piano work meant to be more difficult than Balakirev's Islamey, Gaspard de la nuit. The end of one work features an eight bar shift from C major to E major right before bass drum and cymbals make their first entrance reinforcing the ostinato first played by the snare drums. For 10 points, name this composer, who created Pavane for a Dead Princess and the repetitive Bolero."	Joseph-Maurice Ravel	Bolero	False
760	"A conquest of this place by Ziyadat Allah I saw a sacking of Taormina, after which this place was controlled by the Aghlabid dynasty.  The Mamertine mercenaries were brought here by Agathocles, and the Peace of Caltabellotta ended a war fought over this place that involved Charles the Lame and Roger of Lauria.  That war began with a revolt led by John of Procida which fought against Charles of Anjou in favor of Peter III of Aragon.  In addition to that revolt named for evening prayers, its namesake ""Vespers,"" this place was grouped with Naples in the Kingdom of Two of this city.  For 10 points, name this island separated by the Strait of Messina from mainland Italy."	Sicily	Charles_V,_Holy_Roman_Emperor	False
761	"He wrote about the death of the Yardmaster in ""Man on Pink Corner,"" which was included along with ""The Cruel Redeemer Lazarus Morell"" and a work about Monk Eastman in his A Universal History of Iniquity. He wrote about the scarred John Vincent Moon in ""The Shape of the Sword"" and of the death of a man with perfect memory in ""Funes the Memorious."" In another of this man's works, the narrator trades a rare Bible for the infinitely-long ""Book of Sand,"" while in another, Dr. Albert is shot in the back by the double agent Yu Tsun. For 10 points, identify this author of ""The Garden of Forking Paths,"" an Argentine who also wrote the collections El Aleph and Ficciones."	Jorge Luis Borges	The_Aleph_(short_story)	False
762	"He offered four variations on a ""sighing"" theme in the ""Variazioni"" section of a work featuring movements inspired by the Alborada and Fandango dances, while King Dodon is advised about the Queen of Shemakha by the title mystical object of one opera. Along with Capriccio Espagnol and The Golden Cockerel, he used terse violin cadenzas representing the light emanating from Christ's tomb to separate the sections of his Russian Easter Festival Overture and the bass motif of the sultan is contrasted with the violin motif of the title character in a work based on The Arabian Nights. For 10 points, name this Russian composer of Scheherazade and ""Flight of the Bumble Bee."""	Nicolay Andreyevich Rimsky-Korsakov	Violin_concerto	False
763	"This man inspired Giles Deleuze's formulation of the concept of ""the plane of immanence."" His early work, On the Improvement of Understanding, influenced a later work that introduced his concepts of mode, attribute, and substance. He asserted that Ezra was the primary author of the Old Testament and miracles could be explained naturally in a work arguing that freedom of ideas encourages a secure state, Theological-Political Treatise. One of his works features the section ""Of Human Bondage,"" uses the phrase ""God or Nature"" to explain Pantheism, and is written in ""geometrical order."" For 10 points, name this Rationalist philosopher, who wrote Ethics."	"Baruch Spinoza [or Benedict Spinoza; accept Espinosa instead of ""Spinoza""]"	Ethics_(Spinoza)	False
764	Triangular patterns can be seen on the hat of one figure in this painting who wears a set of beads with a cross, and diagonal lines connect the eyes of the two most prominent figures of this painting, one of whom feeds the other a flower. A face peeks out of an orthodox church in the background of this work whose top right contains five houses, two of which are upside down. A woman can be seen milking a goat, and in another portion, a man with a scythe walks to the right as an upside down woman points the way. Depicting the artist's hometown in Vitebsk, Belarus, for 10 points, name this painting by Marc Chagall.	I and the Village	Marc_Chagall	False
765	The propensity of nitroso compounds to participate in a variant of this reaction has been used to synthesize oxazine derivatives.  Another variant of this reaction yields 2,3-dihydro-4-pyridones and uses a compound named for Danishefsky. In addition to that 'aza' variation, this reaction is usually thermodynamically favorable since it sees the formation two sigma bonds from pi bonds. Under kinetic control, it preferentially yields an endo product, and one component must be in the s-cis conformation for the reaction to occur. For 10 points, name this cycloaddition reaction in which a diene reacts with a dienophile to produce a ring and is named after two German chemists.	Diels-Alder Reaction [accept nitroso Diels-Alder, aza Diels-Alder, etc.]	Diels–Alder_reaction	False
766	"He developed the ""chicken-claw"" floor plan for his theorized ""Cartesian skyscraper."" His buildings include the Curuchet House in Argentina, and he and Nicolai Kolli designed Moscow's Tsentrosoyuz Building. His three furniture types include ""type-needs"" and ""human-limb,"" and he helped reconstruct the port of Marseilles, which included his first Unite d'Habitation. He enumerated his ""five points"" in his Towards a New Architecture, and other works of his include a concrete church in Ronchamp and a house mounted on piloti, typical of his International Style. For 10 points, name this Swiss-French architect of the Notre Dame du Haut and the Villa Savoye."	Le Corbusier [accept Charles-Edouard Jeanneret-Gris]	Moscow	False
767	One work set in this country ends when the dog Aesop is shot by his owner Thomas Glahn, while the title character of a trilogy about this country assists in the murder of Eline to marry a knight in the first part entitled The Wreath. In another work from this country The People's Herald withdraws its support for Dr. Stockmann's claim that the bathes are contaminating the local water, and in another work Nils Krogstad's blackmail leads to Nora leaving her husband Torvald Helmer. For 10 points, An Enemy of the People and A Doll's House are set in this country, the home of Knut Hamsun, Sigrid Undset, and Henrik Ibsen.	Norway	A_Doll's_House	False
768	"This composer wrote the aria ""Quand nos bourgeons se rouvriront"" about the Belgian defense on the Ypres in his A Voice in the Desert, while a famous ""nobilmente"" features in his first symphony in A-flat dedicated to Hans Richter. Jacqueline du Pre popularized his cello concerto in E minor, and a Cardinal Newman poem is the basis for his oratorio The Dreams of Gerontius. An argument about Sonata Pathetique with Augustus Jaeger was depicted in the ""Nimrod"" section of a work thought to be inspired by ""Auld Lang Syne."" For 10 points, name this English composer of the Enigma Variations and Pomp and Circumstance."	Edward Elgar	Cello	False
769	One of his paintings features a woman in black on the left with her two daughters and a man sitting in a chair facing the trio. In addition to a Portrait of Bellili Family, he also painted Semiramis Building Babylon and Place de la Concorde. This man also depicted some Jewish bankers in his At the Stock Exchange, and some members of his family can be seen trading the titular commodity in his New Orleans Cotton Exchange, but he is better known for depicting a woman sitting beside a man smoking a pipe with the titular beverage on her table. For 10 points, identify this impressionist painter of L' Absinthe and several sculptures and paintings of ballet dancers.	Hillaire Germaine Edgar {Degas}	New_Orleans	False
770	This polity originally comprised twelve tinkurus that were subjugated in the Kouroukan Fouga, which also established the Great Assembly, or Gbara.  The empire also had three allied states, including Mema, which was ruled by a fama, and Wagadou.  Wali Keita's rule followed that of the empire's founder, a magician whose rise to power and victory at the battle of Kirina over Sumanguru is traced in its Epic of Sundiata.  The latter's grandson, a patron of Sankore University, had to take out a loan to return from his hajj since he gave away so much gold on the way. FTP, name this empire whose rulers, or Mansas, included Musa.	Mali Empire (accept equivalents)	Mali_Empire	True
771	"In the singular, one of these gives its name to a 1914 bronze sculpture by Raymond Duchamp-Villon, considered to be his masterpiece. They were a favorite subject of Theodore Gericault, who painted a pair of fightings ones as well as one of them frightened by lightning while Leonardo da Vinci cast a gigantic bronze statue of one for Francesco Sforza. George Stubbs painted numerous depictions of these creatures, including a 1766 Anatomy of one and a 1762 painting of one attacked by a Lion, and Johan Fuseli painted one of these poking its head through parted curtains in The Nightmare. Famously painted at a namesake ""Fair"" by Rosa Bonheur, for ten points, identify these quadrupeds which are being ridden by the hunters in Rubens' Lion Hunt."	horses (accept all logical equivalents)	Henry_Fuseli	False
772	For a classical charged particle interacting with an electromagnetic field, this behavior can be derived from the Bargmann-Michel-Telegdi equation. Relativistic time dilation as a correction to spin-orbit coupling is the known as the Thomas variety, while the third Milankovitch cycle is a manifestation of this behavior on Earth. NMR is made possible by the Larmor variety, which concerns the behavior of dipoles in an applied magnetic field, and perturbations in this type of motion cause an up-and-down bobbing motion called nutation.  FTP name this phenomenon, the change in direction of the axis of a rotating object.	Precession	Nuclear_magnetic_resonance_spectroscopy	False
773	These structures are used in solving the cycle detection problem because the solving algorithm halts on the second detection of the smallest value of a sequence. A slotted channel is used in an algorithm employing these structures in collision resolution, and they are also used in LRU page-management. They are used in a method of memory allocation contrasted with heap-based allocation, and to implement reverse Polish notation calculators. The SP and SS registers on the Intel x86 architecture are used to implement this data structure first proposed by Friedrich Bauer. Containing two basic operations for adding and removing data, push and pop, FTP, identify these last-in-first-out data structures.	Stack	Sorting_algorithm	False
774	He created a new star while carrying Aurvandil the Brave on his back when he broke off Aurvandil's frozen toe and threw it into the heavens, and he created two more stars from the eyes of Alvaldi's son.  He suffers whenever a hone is thrown across the floor, as he still has a hone stuck in his forehead from his duel against Mist Calf and Hrungnir.  He killed Geirrod with the help of Grid, who loaned him a staff, iron gloves and a belt of strength.  Residing in the hall Bilskirnir with his wife Sif, FTP name this Norse god who wields the short-handled hammer Mj?llnir.	Thor	Iron	False
775	This student of Jean-Leon Gerome at the Ecole des Beaux Arts was one of the subjects of Mumford's The Brown Decades. His students included Henry Ossawa Tanner and Thomas Anschutz, and he painted Mending the Net and Arcadia after learning of Muybridge's work. He painted a portrait of his friend Walt Whitman, rumored to be Whitman's favorite, and painted himself in a small boat behind the title figure in Max Schmitt in a Single Scull. A man lectures to the students of Jefferson Medical College in, FTP, this American realist's monumental painting of a surgery in progress, The Gross Clinic.	Thomas Cowperthwaite Eakins	Walt_Whitman	False
776	Producer of the Ram tank based on the American M3 tank, during World War II, its commanders included Andrew McNaughten and Henry Crerar, while its most notable commander during World War I was Arthur Currie.  During that war, its forces were regarded as an elite force and left alone by the Germans after the Battle of Vimy Ridge, and ships in its navy included the Athabaskan, Nootka, Micmac, and Haida, which is preserved at Hamilton. Its 3rd Infantry Division was the primary landing force at Juno Beach during Normandy landings, and in 1945, it possessed the world's third-largest navy.  FTP, name this Commonwealth country.	"Canada (Accept Canadian Army before mention of navy, accept Montreal Locomotive Works before ""commanders"")"	Battle_of_the_Bulge	False
777	"He was identified with the crocodile god Khenty-Khety, fought the crocodile Maga, and regained his severed hands after the fish-trap was invented by the crocodile god Sobek.  He won a battle when his semen cried out in victory from his opponent's belly.  One of his sons was androgynous and was associated with dying of a broken heart, while his son Ihy was known as the ""bull of confusion.""  Four of his sons, known as the Amerti, protected the canopic jars.  His left eye was associated with the moon, and it was injured during his battle with his father's killer, Set.  FTP, name this falcon-headed Egyptian god, the son of Osiris and Isis."	Horus	Osiris	False
778	The Miyaura Reaction specifically involves synthesis of compounds with this element, and Suzuki coupling occurs between halides and organic acids of this element. One organic reaction involving this element was partly developed by Herbert Brown and is a two-step reaction which often uses the solvent THF. It proceeds in an anti-Markovnikov fashion in which the compound containing this element adds across the double bond, producing an alcohol after the second step of oxidation. Originally discovered by Humphrey Davy, FTP, name this element which has one electron in its 2p shell, thus making its atomic number 5.	Boron	Alkene	False
779	He sold the killer of Iphitus into slavery and tried to give Iphitus's children the money he received for his half-brother from the purchaser, Omphale.  One of his sons was honored with a cenotaph in the hippodrome at Olympia built by Pelops.  After Hyrieus housed this character and his father, he helped Hyrieus create Orion.  His sons include Myrtilus, Eos's beloved Cephalus, and Anticlea's father Autolychus.  This psychopomp invented gymnastics, boxing, astronomy, and weights and measures.  FTP, name this son of Maia and Zeus who was given the caduceus in recognition of his role as the messenger of the gods.	Hermes	Zeus	False
780	"Mathematically, this role can be played by any smooth, real-valued function on a symplectic manifold, and those quantities whose Poisson bracket with it is zero are conserved over time. In quantum mechanics, when a non-trivial unitary operator commutes with this quantity, degeneracy will occur, and this quantity can also be written as ""minus i times h-bar times the partial derivative with respect to time of the wave function."" Appearing in the Schrodinger equation for finding eigenstates and obtained by a Legendre transform from the Lagrangian, for ten points, identify this physical quantity which represents a system's total energy."	Hamiltonian	Wave_function	False
781	Soon after its last ruler was assassinated by one of his generals, that general faced an invasion led by the Bactrian King Demetrius I. The Greeks referred to one of its rulers as Amitrochates, and to his father as Sandrocottos. Sandrocottos was a party to the treaty known as the Epigamia and gave 500 elephants, which proved very useful at Ipsus, to Seleucus I. It was followed by the Sunga dynasty and preceded by the Nanda dynasty. Its emperors included the victor at the battle of Kalinga, and his father Bindusara. FTP, name this ancient Indian empire whose rulers included Chandragupta and Ashoka.	Mauryan dynasty	Maurya_Empire	False
782	In one of this author's short stories, the title character is killed after taking a boy hostage, after which his body is dumped in an unused mine and stinks up the village. In addition to The Catch, this author has recently completed the trilogy The Flaming Green Tree, a work he claims will be his last. Other works by him include a four-volume collection that contains a story about the boy Eeyore, Teach Us to Outgrow Our Madness, and a novel about children who are taken to a remote village after a plague breaks out. The birth of Bird's child with a brain hernia parallels this man's own experiences with his retarded son and is central to his A Personal Matter. FTP, identify this author of Nip the Bud, Shoot the Kids, who also wrote about the brothers Mitsu and Takashi in The Silent Cry.	Kenzaburo Oe	The_Plague	False
783	"This ruler, the subject of a biography by Michael Roberts, signed the Treaty of Barwalde that contained an unusual provision placing a five-year moratorium on peace negotiations. Over 20 years into his reign, he developed the Form of Government that helped create the Gymnasia and set out plans to create leagues designated as Corpus Bellicum and Corpus Evangelicorum. He negotiated the Treaty of Knared with Christian IV, surrendering a port as security, and used the name Captain Gars in travel. With aid from his chancellor Axel Oxenstierna, he was victorious at the Battle of Breitenfeld but soon died at the Battle of Lutzen. FTP, name this ""Lion of the North,"" a dominant king of Sweden at the start of the Thirty Years War."	Gustavus Adolphus of Sweden (Gustav II Adolf)	Treaty_of_Versailles	False
784	This relation is extended by Randall-Wilkins theory and the substitution of Marcus theory into it will produce DeVault-type control coefficients. It can be used as an electronic model to predict failure mechanisms including void formation and metal migration, and is very similar to the Eyring Equation which also applies to mixed phase and condensed situations. The namesake pre-exponential factor assumes the constancy of the collision frequency and the steric factor. Its basic formulation states that the rate is equal to a constant times the exponential of negative E sub a over RT. FTP, name this equation of chemical kinetics including a term for activation energy, named for a noted Swedish chemist.	Arrhenius Equation	Arrhenius_equation	True
785	"John Ruskin derided its creator for painting ""the foulest things he could see by rushlight."" Seymour Slive of Harvard has definitively debunked the popularly believed poor reception of this painting, one of whose titular subjects had a watercolor copy of it made for his personal album, as well as an oil copy by Gerrit Lundens. A small girl, the mascot of the titular group, stands in the left middle next to a man in red, while the two title figures, one all in yellow and one in a red sash, lead the titular group, who hoist their pikes in the air. For ten points, identify this painting which depicts the company of Captain Franz Banning Cocq, the most famous work of Rembrandt van Rijn."	The Night Watch or The Company of Frans Banning Cocq and Willem van Ruytenburch	The_Night_Watch	True
786	"A prolonged fast can activate a selective pathway in these structures that involves KFERQ proteins.  I-cell disease results from a defect in the addition of the mannose-6-phosphate moiety used to target enzymes to them, and a deficiency of the enzyme glucocerebrosidase (""gloo-coh-ser-eh-BRO-sih-dase"") in these organelles leads to Gaucher's (""go-SHAYZ"") disease.  Their membranes contain hydrogen ion pumps and chloride ion channel proteins that maintain an interior pH of about 4.8, ideal for their proteasomes and other hydrolytic enzymes.  Autophagy occurs in, FTP, these organelles responsible for enzymatic digestion of cell components and ingested matter."	lysosomes	Lysosome	True
787	"This man borrowed from Othello to write his poem ""Goats and Monkeys,"" and asked, ""Where shall I turn, divided in the vein,"" in a poem from his collection Two Poems on the Passing of an Empire. His dramatic works include one about Henry Trewe and John Phillip inspired by Robinson Crusoe, and an adaptation of Tirso de Molina's The Joker of Seville. He wrote a play which ends with Makak's return, with the help of Moustique, to the titular geographical feature, as well as a transposition of the Odyssey into his native land. For ten points, identify this author of Dream on Monkey Mountain and Omoros, a native of St. Lucia."	Derek Alton Walcott	Robinson_Crusoe	False
788	This nation includes the historic Solentiname Archipelago as well as Ometepe Island, and it has national parks on Zapatera Island and surrounding its Mombacho volcano. Its borders are defined largely by rivers, the Coco River in the north and the San Juan in the south. Its major port city, on the Escondido River, is Bluefields, and other sizeable cities include Rivas, Le?, and Chinandega. Another important river in this nation is the Tipitapa, not so much for its length, but for its role in connecting the two large bodies of water within the country. Containing the province of Zelaya, FTP, name this largest Central American country situated between Costa Rica and Honduras.	Nicaragua	Honduras	False
789	This character's dreams include one of a mountain falling on him and one of a man bringing him water after a bull throws him down.  In another dream he feels a sexual attraction to a meteorite that he cannot lift.  This dream leads his mother, the Wild Cow, to prophesy the arrival of a man as powerful as Ninurta created by Aruru to be his companion.  With that companion he kills the Bull of Heaven and the guardian of the Cedar Forest, a demon known as Humbaba.  FTP name this mythical king of Uruk who teams up with Enkidu in a Mesopotamian epic.	Gilgamesh	Epic_of_Gilgamesh	True
790	The occurrence of this effect in atmospheric molecular oxygen is the dominant cause of polarized atmospheric emissions around 60 GHz. The Lyman-alpha transition is a manifestation of this effect, and the energies associated with one form of it can be written as being proportional to the Lande g-factor. This effect obeys selection rules which permit a change in orbital quantum number by plus or minus one, and a change in the magnetic quantum number by either zero or plus or minus one. Its strong-field form is known as the Paschen-Back effect, and its weak-field, or anomalous form was the first to be discovered by its namesake. FTP, identify this effect in which degenerate energy levels of an atom are split by a magnetic field.	Zeeman Effect	Magnetic_field	False
791	The main character of this work would have a cup of coffee with a shot of cane liquor every Monday, and goes home to change out of his riding clothes after being invited for breakfast by the narrator's sister. One character in this work writes to another for 17 years, though when the recipient comes to Guarija, the letters are all unopened. This work begins with the arrival of a bishop by boat, and later in this work, the main character tells his mother, Placida Linero, that he dreamt of walking through a forrest in the rain. The titular action takes place after a woman is returned home on her wedding night by Bayard San Roman because she is not a virgin. For ten points, identify this novel in which the deflowering of Angela is avenged by her brothers Pablo and Pedro Vicario on Santiago Nassar, written by Gabriel Garcia Marquez.	Chronicle of a Death Foretold or Cronica de una muerte anunciada	Chronicle_of_a_Death_Foretold	True
792	Juan de Urtubia led the sacking of this city by the Navarrese Company 68 years after it was captured by the Catalan Company following the battle of Halmyros.  It is generally assumed that this city gained control of two additional districts in a confederacy following its 427 BCE capture of Plataea.  Cassander repaired the damage this city suffered following its unsuccessful revolt against the League of Corinth, which came 3 years after its defeat alongside Athens at Chaeronea.  Philip II of Macedon spent time as a captive in this city, giving him an opportunity to study the improved phalanx tactics developed by Epaminondas.  FTP name this polis which enjoyed a few decades of hegemony on the strength of its Sacred Band.	Thebes	Corinth	False
793	"Anfinsen's thermodynamic hypothesis uses the minimum of this quantity to predict protein structures, and in the Henon-Heiles equation, this quantity is given by ""one half r-squared plus one-third r-cubed times sine of 3-theta."" The Jeans length gives the scale at which one form of this quantity will result in the stability of a gas cloud. For a dipole in an electric field, it is the negative dot product of the moment and the electric field.  The derivative of this quantity with respect to a position gives the force field, and for a spring, it is given by one-half times the spring constant times the displacement squared. For ten points, identify this quantity, the energy a system has by virtue of its configuration."	potential energy	Electric_charge	False
794	He cleansed Pelops of blood-guilt in the western stream of Oceanus, and a practical joke by his uncle resulted in him ejaculating on his half-sister's thigh, making him the father of Erichthonius.  He drove off the River-god Scamander to help Achilles, and the blinded Orion took his apprentice Cedalion as a guide after finding his workshop.  During the revolt of the giants, he scalded Mimas with a ladle full of red-hot metal.  Pandareus and Tantalus conspired to steal a golden mastiff created by this god, and his other creations include a net that caught Ares in bed with his wife.  FTP name this husband of Aphrodite, the lame smith-god of the Greeks.	Hephaestus	Tantalus	False
795	"This ruler issued a ""divine pragmatic sanction"" nullifying certain donations, and was influenced by the theological advisors Domitian of Ancyra and Theodore Askidas. His armies were defeated at the Battle of Callinicum, after which his minister Peter Barsymes devised a set of fiscal reforms. His theological quarrel with Pope Vigilius is sometimes called the Three Chapters dispute. A year after he negotiated the so-called ""Endless Peace"" with the Persians, his army won at Tricamerum over Gelimer and the Vandals and he commissioned Tribonian to supervise the creation of the Digesta, the Institutiones, and the Novels, all components of his namesake legal code. FTP, name this great Byzantine emperor from 527-565 CE."	Justinian I (the Great) or Flavius Petrus Sabbatius Justinianus	Vandals	False
796	"At one point, the author uses the metaphor of building a house, saying that people will pronounce a house perfect when it is completed, but that one cannot pronounce anything perfect without knowing the intention of its maker. The paradox of Buridan's Ass is rejected as irrational, and its author later concludes that rational man is freer abiding by the laws of a State than living independently in solitude in part four, ""Of Human Bondage, Or The Strength of the Emotions."" Presenting its author's double aspect theory of the mind, its first part, ""Concerning God,"" begins the distinction between such ideas as substance, attribute, and mode. FTP, name this magnum opus ""presented in a geometrical order,"" by Baruch Spinoza."	Ethics	Ethics_(Spinoza)	True
797	The main character of this novel seduces Lena, and one of the main character's friends is killed by a ship's axe after trying to make love to a wooden figurehead called Niobe. The main character uses one of his talents to help Jan steal a necklace for his mother, and during a visit to a cathedral places the title object in the hands of the baby Jesus. The main character's grandmother at one point hid Joseph Koljaiczek in her skirts, while the man who gives him his last name swallows his Nazi party pin and dies when the Russians invade. The protagonist's voice can shatter glass, and he decides to stop growing at age three. For ten points, identify this novel about Oskar Matzerath, the first work in Gunther Grass' Danzig Trilogy.	The Tin Drum	The_Tin_Drum	True
798	This man's last painting was a portrait of his neighbor and tennis partner, Arnold Schoenberg.  He bought a copy of Forsyth's Orchestration for use in working on a commission from Damrosch.  He was the soloist at the premiere of that work, which was preceded on the program by Glazunov's 5th symphony, chosen for the Charleston rhythm featured in his Concerto in F.  He bought four taxi horns for a work inspired by a trip to Europe, and the rhythms of a train ride in Boston inspired another piece that opens with a clarinet glissando.  FTP, name this composer of An American in Paris and Rhapsody in Blue.	George Gershwin or Jacob Gershovitz	Rhapsody_in_Blue	False
799	"He penned a dramatic poem about a sick knight who can only be cured by a maiden sacrificing her life for him, ""The Golden Legend.""  That poem is collected with a retelling of Christ's life called the Divine Tragedy, which forms his Christus trilogy, along with another duo of poems that ends with a scene of St. John wandering the face on the earth.  That scene appears in his New England Tragedies after two tales of Puritans and witchcraft, John Endicott and Giles Corey.  One of his poems considers ""These Hebrews in their graves"" in the title locale, and another focuses on the grandson of Nokomis.  FTP, name this American poet of ""The Jewish Cemetery at Newport"" and The Song of Hiawatha."	Henry Wadsworth Longfellow	The_Hollow_Men	False
800	In one short novella by this author, the title character walks in the rain to Cottolengo to monitor an election, while another work by this man consists of 27 meditations by the namesake character. In addition to The Watcher and Mr. Palomar, this man wrote novels about Agilulf and the Baron of Ombrosa, which together with another novel form his trilogy Our Ancestors. That work concerns Medardo of Terralba, who is blown apart by a cannonball.  One of his novels consists of dialogues between Marco Polo and Kublai Khan about the title locations.  Invisible Cities and The Cloven Viscount are novels by, FTP, this Italian author of If on a Winter's Night a Traveler.	Italo Calvino	Kublai_Khan	False
801	Its upper portion forms the top part of the greater curvature. The lesser curvature, which also begins at the cardiac orifice, is about four times shorter than the greater curvature, so it is described as J-shaped.  Its volume increases when the rugae are stretched.  Parietal cells produce intrinsic factor, necessary for vitamin B12 absorption, and a chemical that activates the zymogen secreted by chief cells.  Gelatinase, amylase lipase and pepsin participate in breaking down boli, producing chyme which passes through the pyloric sphincter into the duodenum. FTP, name this organ that lies between the esophagus and small intestine.	stomach	Curvature	False
802	"He gave himself a minor role as Father Higgins in an ""apprenticeship work"" about Willie Seopola.  Several of his plays, including The Island, were largely a result of improvisation, while a woman giving premature birth formed the basis for The Cell, which both he and his wife Sheila claim was his first work.  His play focusing on Zachariah and his lighter-skinned half-brother Morris was grouped in his Family Trilogy with Hello and Goodbye and Boesman and Lena.  Another work features the waiters Willie and Sam, who drops his pants after hearing a racist joke from Hally.  FTP name this South African playwright of Blood Knot and Master Harold...and the Boys."	Harold Athol Lanigan Fugard	All_the_King's_Men	False
803	"His first publication, based on Morning Chronicle articles a year before, caused the repeal of the Bank Restriction Act. This man's writing were collected after his death by Maurice Herbert Dobb and his longtime follower Piero Sraffa. He discusses labor-saving techniques in a chapter ""On Machinery,"" and after marrying a Quaker, he wrote The High Price of Bullion and formulated a theory that would be discovered concurrently by Robert Torrens. A proponent of the idea that real income tends to remain near subsistence, FTP name this economist who, in his Principles of Political Economy and Taxation, discussed the Iron Law of Wages and formulated the principle of competitive advantage."	David Ricardo	David_Ricardo	True
804	"One of this country's most important leaders put down ""the tippler's revolt,"" and two of its earlier rulers were known as ""the Peopler"" and the ""Farmer King."" This country signed the Treaty of Methuen in 1703, which hampered its industry, and its scandals included the Tavora Conspiracy and a civil war known as the War of the Two Brothers or the Liberal War. After victory in the Battle of Aljubarrota came the establishment of the Aviz Dynasty, while its later rulers would include the Queen Maria da Gloria. The Estado Novo was brought to an end here in 1974, most associated with the long-time rule of Antonio Salazar. Led by the Braganza family, FTP, identify this Iberian country with a capital at Lisbon."	Portugal	Lisbon	False
805	This man's early works include the string septet Shaker Loops and the piano piece Phrygian Gates.   His time as composer in residence for the San Francisco Symphony produced works like a tribute to the Second Viennese School, Harmonielehre, and a choral work using the text of a John Donne poem and two Emily Dickinson poems, Harmonium.  He used missing persons reports, internet postings, and cell phone conversations as the text for his 9/11 tribute, On the Transmigration of Souls, and wrote operas about the hijacking of the Achille Lauro and the visit of a President to a certain country. FTP name this modern American composer of The Death of Klinghoffer and Nixon in China.	John Adams	John_Adams_(composer)	True
806	In one of this author's stories, a woman dies of pneumonia and sees a vision of a gigantic parrot, and in another, the title character saves the Emperor of Occitania from the Caliph of Cordova and is taken up to heaven by Jesus posing as a leper. One of his works, inspired by a trip to Carthage, recounts the love of Matho for the title priestess. In one work, Frederic Moreau pines for the older Madame Arnoux but ultimately rejects her, and in this author's best-known novel the title character swallows arsenic after having affairs with Rodolphe and L?n. Famous for such works as Salammbo and A Simple Heart, for ten points, name this author of The Sentimental Education and Madame Bovary.	Gustave Flaubert	Madame_Bovary	False
807	In the tale of Hedinn and Hogni, this deity convinced Hedinn to crush Hogni's wife and kidnap his daughter, in order to fulfill another god's wish for an everlasting battle.  In the Hyndluljoth the giantess Hyndla recognizes the boar Hildesvini as this goddess's human lover Ottar in disguise.  According to the Prose Edda, her palace Folkvangr is the destination of half of the slain warriors, and she would have had to marry the giant Blast if he had completed the walls of Asgard in time.  She had sex with four dwarves to obtain the necklace Brisingamen, and usually traveled in a chariot drawn by two cats.  FTP name this daughter of Njord, a Vanir goddess of love and fertility.	Freya [or Freyja; or Friia]	Cat	False
808	The Zincke form of this class of compounds results from the reaction of a pyridinium salt with 2,4-DNP and a primary amine. The presence of this functional group can be distinguished by an absorption band around 2720 to 2820 inverse centimeters in IR spectroscopy, or by a chemical shift of around 9-10 delta in proton NMR spectroscopy.  They undergo disproportionation in the Cannizzaro Reaction to yield acids and alcohols, and they can be detected by a brick red precipitate in Fehling's Test or by the formation of a silver mirror on the wall of a test tube in the Tollens test. FTP, name this class of organic compounds defined by a terminal carbonyl group.	aldehydes	Nuclear_magnetic_resonance_spectroscopy	False
809	A model for its synthesis incorporates the tenets of catalytic cooperativity and rotational catalysis, which were formulated by Paul Boyer.  This molecule binds to Walker A and Walker B motifs, and it can be synthesized via the binding change mechanism.  During the formation of pyrimidines, it joins with ribose 5-phosphate to form PRPP.  It is synthesized in the F0F1 complex, and it is catalyzed by dynein for use in flagella.  It is produced under low-oxygen conditions by substrate-level phosphorylation, as in the last three reactions of glycolysis.  FTP name this energy-carrying molecule produced by the electron-transport chain.	ATP or adenosine triphosphate	Flagellum	False
810	The protagonist's mother is conceived when the fugitive Joseph Koljaiczek takes refuge from constables under a woman's skirt in a potato field. She dies after a dead horse's head full of eels inspires her to eat only fish. Its protagonist outlandishly seduces Maria, the younger sister of a man with hieroglyph-like scars on his back, Herbert Truczinski, and his father Alfred dies from swallowing a pin to conceal his fascist affiliations from the Russians. The title object is given to the protagonist for his third birthday, after which he decides to stop growing. Set in Danzig, FTP, name this novel about Oskar Matzerath by Gunter Grass.	The Tin Drum (or Die Blechtrommel)	The_Tin_Drum	True
811	"Prior to its translation by William of Moerbeke, it was unavailable to medieval Europe, except through the excerpts quoted in Macrobius's commentary on Cicero's Somnium Scipionis. One section denounces excessive Laconian philotimia, while Book III cites the need for a ""noble lie"" as the basis for the title concept. Discussion of a line divided into four parts and of the sun are metaphors for its author's idea of the levels of existence and of the absolute good respectively, but, the most famous excerpt features shackled prisoners watching shadows to illustrate the ""theory of forms"" in the ""allegory of the cave"". FTP, name this Platonic dialogue in which Socrates claims that a philosopher should rule the titular entity."	The Republic [or Politeia]	Apology_(Plato)	False
812	"During his reign, his forces defeated Spain at Jarbah and lost in a battle with the Knights of St. John in an attempt to capture Malta. While serving as governor in the Crimea, he helped his father to build an army. A principle known as the ""circle of justice"" guided the legal kanuns which he set up, and he supported the ascension of John Zapolya following one of his military victories. Against Rhodes, he used the naval forces enhanced by his grandfather Bayezid II and led by Khayr ad-Din or Barbarossa, though he later failed at the first siege of Vienna. The winner at Mohacs and son of Selim the Grim, this is, FTP, what Ottoman Sultan, who oversaw that empire's ""golden age""?"	Suleiman the Magnificent [or Suleiman I or Suleiman the Lawgiver or Suleiman Kunani]	Ottoman_Empire	False
813	This country signed the Security Treaty with the U.S. in 1951, an agreement that was strengthened in the 1960 Treaty of Mutual Cooperation and Security, and the Treaty of San Francisco allowed the U.S. to occupy it. It knew American sailing vessels as Black Ships, and a contingent of Americans anchored in Uraga harbor signed a convention with this country in 1854. The U.S. exchanged six diplomatic notes with it in 1907 that limited passports issued by this country, an accord known as the Gentleman's Agreement. FTP, name this country which, on August 6 and August 9, 1945, saw its cities Hiroshima and Nagasaki devastated by atomic bombs.	Japan [or Nihon-koku or Nippon-koku]	Treaty_of_Versailles	False
814	One character in this work drinks Coca-Cola from a paper sack that most of the townspeople believe contains alcohol, while another, Mrs. Dubose, breaks a morphine habit and dies in pain rather than addicted. A blanket mysteriously appears over the shoulders of one of its characters when Miss Maudie Atkinson's house burns down, and an unruly mob breaks up after Walter Cunningham's father becomes embarrassed. A legal defense in this novel hinges on the defendant's withered left arm, but Tom Robinson is still convicted of raping Mayella Ewell and dies trying to escape prison. FTP, name this work that features Jem, Scout, and Atticus Finch, a novel by Harper Lee.	To Kill a Mockingbird	To_Kill_a_Mockingbird	True
815	What are known as the Tait-Bryan angles in aeronautics are elsewhere known for this person. An equation that calculates loading of beams is named after Bernoulli and this scientist. A formula that can evaluate series using integrals is named after Maclaurin and him. Initial value problems can be integrated approximately by his namesake iterative method. The limit of the difference between the harmonic series and the natural logarithm is a constant denoted gamma that is named after Mascheroni and him. FTP, name this mathematician whose namesake number is the base of the natural logarithm, e.	Leonhard Euler	Logarithm	False
816	In a Russian story, one of these creatures with three heads issued a test to Ivashko, so that he might earn the right to marry the maiden of the Golden Kingdom. In a Welsh tale, two of these, which were plaguing the kingdom of Llefelys, were buried after Lludd advised that they be stupefied with mead. A hero out to collect the apples of the Hesperides for Eurystheus, slew one of these creatures named Ladon. Near the well of Hvergelmir in Niflheim, one of these creatures named Nithogg gnaws on the root of Yggdrasil. FTP, identify these mythical creatures, which in China are associated with water, but typically breathe fire in Western folklore?	dragons [or wyrms]	Yggdrasil	False
817	At the opening of this work, the protagonist reads quotes of scriptural texts on the fa?de of a Byzantine mortuary chapel before encountering a man who inspires him to go to distant places. Later, the protagonist purchases overripe strawberries and mulls upon the divinity of beauty, as told by Socrates to Phaedrus, and has his hair dyed by a barber, partly in response to the spread of cholera through the title location. After following a governess and her children for several days, the protagonist watches Jaschiu wrestle with Tadzio before suffering the title affliction. FTP, name this Thomas Mann novella about the last days of Gustav von Aeschenbach in the title Italian city.	Death in Venice or Der T?d in Vendig	Death_in_Venice	True
818	"In this opera, ""Tu che di gel sei cinta"" and ""Signore, ascolta!"" are two arias sung by one female character; the male lead responds to the latter by urging ""Non piangere."" The other female lead's major aria, which recalls the abduction of her ancestress, is called ""In questa reggia."" The emperor Altoum tries to dissuade the male protagonist from trying to answer three riddles, as does the slave girl Liu, but Calaf is determined to win the hand of the title character, later singing the famous ""Nessun dorma"" in triumph. FTP, identify this Puccini opera named after a Chinese princess."	Turandot	Turandot	True
819	"It is used in pain sensitization as a signaling molecule that binds to purinergic receptors. It is also potent inhibitor of both pyruvate kinase and phosphofructokinase. In muscle cells it is often indirectly transported throughout the cell via creatine, which can accept or donate a phosphate group and form this organic molecule. The enzyme adenylate cyclase converts it into the second messenger cyclic AMP, but this molecule is most famously associated with the metabolic processes of photosynthesis, glycolysis, and oxidative phosphorylation. FTP, name this nucleotide used by most cells as the ""energy currency."""	adenosine triphosphate	Cyclic_adenosine_monophosphate	False
820	"In one of this author's short stories, the narrator becomes captivated by thoughts of the title object after picking up a coin. Other of his stories describe a nineteen year old invalid with an incredible memory, a ""monstrous"" book containing an infinite number of pages, and a fictional planet founded on the principles of Berkelian idealism. In addition to ""Funes, the Memorious"", ""The Book of Sand"", and ""Tlon, Uqbar, Orbis Tertius"", this author wrote short stories about an object that allows the narrator to see the entire universe and an infinite expanse of hexagonal rooms containing books with every possible combination of characters. FTP, name this Argentinian author of ""El Aleph"" and ""The Library of Babel"" who collected his stories in Ficciones."	Jorge Luis Borges	The_Aleph_(short_story)	False
821	"The second movement of his Fourth Symphony features a solo violin whose strings are tuned A-E-B-F, and the last movement features a solo soprano singing about the heavenly life. The second and fourth movements of his Seventh Symphony are labeled ""Nachtmusik"" and his Fifth Symphony contains his famous ""Adagietto"" as well as a C-sharp minor funeral march for an opening movement. Another symphony sets both the Latin hymn Veni, Creator Spiritus and the last scene from Goethe's Faust. FTP, identify this composer of the ""Symphony of a Thousand"" as well as symphonies commonly called ""Titan"" and ""Resurrection""."	Gustav Mahler	Symphony_No._8_(Mahler)	False
822	"H. L. Mansel's The Philosophy of the Conditioned responded to this man's critique of the philosophy of Mansel's mentor; that critique introduced the idea that external objects are just ""Permanent Possibilities of Sensation"" and was entitled Examination of Sir William Hamilton's Philosophy. The sixth and final chapter of another work argues that we should approach the ""moral sciences"" as we do the physical. That work, an examination of induction entitled A System of Logic, is not as famous as an essay that asserts that the only legitimate reason to exercise power over someone is to ""prevent harm to others."" FTP, identify this philosopher, author of ""On Liberty"" and Utilitarianism."	John Stuart Mill	Utilitarianism	False
823	"Many excerpts from this man's diaries were published as A Diary in the Strict Sense of the Term in 1967. He claimed that societal institutions fulfill basic human needs in A Scientific Theory of Culture. Two of his works deal with Sex and Repression and Crime and Custom in ""savage society."" He wrote the foreward to his London School of Economics pupil Jomo Kenyatta's Facing Mount Kenya. Several of his works, such as Magic, Science, and Religion and Coral Gardens and Their Magic, stem from fieldwork in the Trobriand Islands. FTP, name this author of Argonauts of the Western Pacific, a Polish anthropologist."	Bronislaw Kasper Malinowski	Jomo_Kenyatta	False
824	The defining functional group of these compounds can be protected by reacting it with chlorotrimethylsilane to yield a trimethylsilyl ether. They react with tosyl chlorides to form tosylates and the most highly substituted type reacts with hydrobromic acid to form alkyl halides. They can be formed from alkenes by hydroboration and oxidation, or by oxymercuration and reduction. These compounds are also synthesized by using sodium borohydride to reduce ketones or aldehydes. FTP, name this class of organic compounds defined by the presence of a hydroxyl group bonded to a saturated carbon, a common example of which is ethanol.	alcohols	Ketone	False
825	"This work divides nature into the categories of natura naturans and natura naturata, phrases from its author's earlier Short Treatise on God, Man and His Well-Being. The preface to its final section discusses Descartes' thoughts on the pineal gland and its fourth section is entitled ""Of Human Bondage, or the Power of the Affects."" Each section begins with a set of definitions and axioms from which the propositions of that section arise. Using the phrase ""God or Nature"" to represent its author's pantheistic views, FTP, identify this philosophical work of five parts ""presented in geometrical order,"" dictating right action and written by Baruch Spinoza."	Ethics [or Ethica ordine geometrico demonstrata]	Baruch_Spinoza	False
826	"Military events during this war included the Duke de Villeroi's destruction at Ramillies, a failed attempt by the dukes of Boufflers and Villars to break the siege of Mons, and a battle which began with a weakening strike by John Cutts and ended with with the retreat of Maximillian II Emanuel. Perhaps the most important consequence of this war was a provision in the peace treaty giving the ""asciento,"" or control over the Atlantic slave trade, to Britain. It failed to prevent Philip V of Bourbon from succeeding the Habsburg Carlos II despite bloody clashes at Oudenarde, Malplaquet, and Blenheim. FTP, name this early-1700's war in which Eugene of Savoy and the Duke of Marlborough distinguished themselves, ended by the Peace of Utrecht."	War of the Spanish Succession	War_of_the_Spanish_Succession	True
827	While in Paris, this man painted pedestrians crossing Les Ponts des Arts and evoked an earlier painting with his depiction of a tower of the Louvre's Pavillon de Flore. A painting by this man depicts a white-faced woman in green sitting across a table from her doppelganger at the titular restaurant, Chop Suey. Another of his paintings depicts the long shadows of a curbside fire hydrant and barber's pole in front of closed red and green storefronts, Early Sunday Morning. Another of his paintings features a sign for five-cent cigars above two hat-wearing men and a woman in a red dress patronizing the counter of a diner. FTP, name this American painter of Nighthawks.	Edward Hopper	Nighthawks	False
828	"Noether's Theorem yields an important result about how this quantity changes for systems with symmetry under translation. In relativity, its square times the speed of light cubed is one in the equation for the square of the total energy and it must be redefined to use the rest mass and the Lorentz factor, and when Newton first described his second law, the ""ma"" term was in the form of the time derivative of this quantity. FTP identify this vector quantity which is equal to the mass of an object times its velocity, and is often denoted using the letter p."	linear momentum [prompt on p]	Special_relativity	False
829	"In one work, this thinker distinguishes between the juridical state of nature and the ethical state of nature, claiming that abandoning the latter in favor of an ""ethical commonwealth"" is necessary for overcoming his notion of ""radical evil,"" and another work defines the title concept as ""man's emergence from his self-imposed immaturity."" In addition to Religion Within the Limits of Reason Alone and ""An Answer to the Question: What is Enlightenment?""  he wrote Prolegomena to Any Future Metaphysics two years after his most famous work, which discusses the possibility of synthetic a priori knowledge. FTP, identify this philosopher, author of Critique of Pure Reason."	Immanuel Kant	Critique_of_Pure_Reason	False
830	"Among his sacred works are three early settings of the Regina Coeli, as well as a work that features the soprano solo ""Laudate Dominum,"" his Vesperae solennes de confessore. Two soprano soloists duet in the ""Domine"" movement of another sacred piece that also features three prominent subito piani in its ""Qui tollis"" movement and the soprano solos ""Laudamus te"" and ""Et incarnatus est."" His most famous sacred work, in which the four soloists sing together in the ""Recordare"" and ""Tuba mirum,"" also features a famous ""Lacrimosa"" and was completed by his student Franz Xaver S?ssmayr. FTP, identify this composer of the ""Great"" Mass in C minor, along with Don Giovanni and Eine Kleine Nachtmusik."	Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart	Don_Giovanni	False
831	Identities applicable to these are due to Gelin and Ces?o. d'Ocagne, and Catalan. They are a special case of the Lucas sequence, terms in which obey the same recurrence relation as these numbers. The ratio of successive ones of these converges to four over quantity one plus root five squared, which is one over the golden ratio squared. They are the sums of successive diagonals of Pascal's triangle and each one is equal to the sum of the two before it. FTP, name this set of numbers originally devised by considering the multiplication of rabbits and which are named for a Pisan mathematician.	Fibonacci numbers or the Fibonacci sequence	Blaise_Pascal	False
832	"He recorded an album whose song ""Petits Machins (Little Stuff)"" precedes the title track, Filles de Kilimanjaro, a year before another album whose title track, composed by Joe Zawinul, follows the song ""Shhh/Peaceful."" In addition to 1969's In a Silent Way, he recorded an album that included tracks such as ""The Pan Piper"" and ""Song of Our Country,"" as well as his interpretation of Joaquin Rodrigo's Concierto de Aranjuez. That album featured the efforts of frequent collaborator Gil Evans and was entitled Sketches of Spain, and his most famous album features the tracks ""Freddie Freeloader"" and ""So What."" FTP, identify this jazz trumpeter who released Kind of Blue."	Miles Davis	Kind_of_Blue	False
833	Historical periods of this present-day country include the Gampola, Rolonnawura, and Yapahuva. Major figures in its history, which is chronicled in the Mahavamsa,  include Senarath, who conquered the rebel state of Sitawaka, and Rajasinha II, who signed a treaty with the Dutch. The Dutch allied with the kingdom of Kandy here, and large portions of this island have been controlled by the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam. FTP, name this island country formerly known as Ceylon and found off the southeast coast of India.	Sri Lanka	Netherlands	False
834	One form of this interaction is governed by the CKM matrix. Because they decay by this interaction, charged pions have long lifetimes. Having charged- and neutral-current interactions, this force allows flavor change and, as discovered by Yang and Lee and Cronin and Fitch, breaks both P and CP symmetry. Research about this force garnered the 1979 Nobel Prize in Physics for Glashow, Salam, and Weinberg, who unified it with the electromagnetic force. It is mediated by heavy gauge bosons named W and Z. FTP, name this short-ranged interaction with a very small coupling constant.	"the weak nuclear force or weak interaction [prompt on quark mixing or quark flavor changing before ""neutral-current interactions""]"	Weak_interaction	True
835	In one of this man's works, the doctor reports to Marguerite and Marie, wives of the title character, that Mars and Saturn have collided and exploded. In addition to Exit the King, this author wrote about Marie, the Maid, reminding the professor that he has now killed forty students in The Lesson, while an old man and woman usher in invisible guests before the Orator and Emperor arrive in his The Chairs. Better known works by this author include one where the Fire Chief comes to visit the Smiths and Martins, and another where Berenger watches everyone around him turn into the title creature. FTP, name this French dramatist whose works include The Bald Soprano and Rhinoceros.	Eug?e Ionesco	The_Bald_Soprano	False
836	"This author argued that Satan was responsible for the crusades in The Political History of the Devil. One of this author's characters wears a Turkish dress to seduce a jeweler on the advice of her servant Amy. Along with that novel about a ""fortunate mistress,"" Roxana, he wrote a ""Hymn to the Pillory"" after being jailed for writing the satirical pamphlet ""The Shortest Way with the Dissenters."" H.F. narrates his novel about London during the year 1665, A Journal of the Plague Year, while his other title characters include a picaresque heroine born in Newgate and a shipwrecked sailor based on Alexander Selkirk. FTP, name this author of Moll Flanders and Robinson Crusoe."	Daniel Defoe [or Daniel Foe]	Robinson_Crusoe	False
837	This man's last work was a hexagonal structure with a tall central spire, the North Christian Church. He co-designed the ninth Case Study House with Charles Eames, a Streamline Moderne structure for John Entenza. He designed the canoe-shaped Kresge Auditorium and a cylindrical chapel for MIT, and furniture like the metal-framed Womb Chair and molded plastic Tulip Chair. His constructions include the thin-shell projections of the TWA Flight Center and the concave roof of Dulles International, and another of his works was based on Hannskarl Bandel's modification to a catenary. FTP, name this designer of the Gateway Arch, a Finnish-American dude whose father Eliel was also an architect.	Eero Saarinen	Eero_Saarinen	True
838	This author explained his philosophy of writing in The Curtain: An Essay in Seven Parts and wrote about two ?igr? meeting in a Paris airport in his recent novel Ignorance. He wrote a fictional biography of the poet Jaromil in Life is Elsewhere, while Ludvik, Kostka, and Jaroslav are among the narrators of his first novel, The Joke. He described life in his native country through such characters as Marketa and Mirek in The Book of Laughter and Forgetting, while his most famous novel sees the doctor Tomas lose his job for criticizing communists during Prague Spring. FTP, name this Czech author of The Unbearable Lightness of Being.	Milan Kundera	The_Unbearable_Lightness_of_Being	False
839	Helmholtz separability depends on one of these due to St?kel. These mathematical objects have a property known as n-linearity. There is a Sylvester identity and Cauchy theorem about them. A version of them is applicable to quadratic forms. The cross product can be generalized to n dimensions if it is treated as one of these operations performed on n minus one n-vectors, a fact often exploited in 3-space. Ratios of these functions can be used solve linear equations by Cramer's Rule. If this vanishes for a matrix, the matrix is called singular. FTP, what is this matrix function that, for a 2-by-2 matrix a b c d, is ad minus bc?	determinant	MATRIX	False
840	"A ""Pezzo Elegiaco"" and a massive set of variations are the two movements of his A minor piano trio, and he also wrote a set of Variations on a Rococo Theme for cello and orchestra. He wrote a symphonic poem based on the fifth canto from Dante's Inferno, Francesca da Rimini. The soloist enters with crashing D-flat major chords in his Piano Concerto No. 1 in B-flat minor. His third symphony is sometimes known as the ""Polish,"" and his last, whose second movement is a waltz-like piece in 5/4 time, is a B minor work usually referred to as the ""Pathetique."" FTP, identify this Russian composer also known for the 1812 Overture and ballets like Swan Lake and The Nutcracker."	Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky	Piano_concerto	False
841	"He compared ""the struggling tides of life"" to ""eddies of the mighty stream / that rolls to its appointed end"" in ""The Crowded Street."" He wrote about the replacement of Native American societies with the ""advancing multitude"" of American settlers in a poem about ""the gardens of the desert,"" ""The Prairies."" This author of ""To Cole, the Painter, Departing for Europe"" and ""To the Fringed Gentian"" published the Federalist satire Embargo in 1804. He first gained fame at seventeen for a poem arguing that deceased souls become part of nature; that poem's title means ""meditation upon death."" FTP, name this American poet of ""To a Waterfowl"" and ""Thanatopsis."""	William Cullen Bryant	Thanatopsis	False
842	"He argued that classical economics focused on artificial equilibriums in ""Why is Economics not an Evolutionary Science?"" and claimed that Bismarck's autocracy gave Prussia a technical advantage in ""Imperial Germany and the Industrial Revolution."" He postulated a tech-savvy class in conflict with the business elite in The Engineers and the Price System and criticized colleges run by businessmen in The Higher Learning in America. This author of The Theory of Business Enterprise cited the potlatch custom in another work as an example of frivolous spending to achieve social status. FTP, name this economist who postulated ""conspicuous consumption"" in The Theory of the Leisure Class."	Thorstein Bunde Veblen or Tosten Bunde Veblen	The_Theory_of_the_Leisure_Class	False
843	This novel was written as a response to the idealism of R. M. Ballantyne's The Coral Island. One character in this novel throws stones at Henry, but intentionally misses. A climactic event in this novel occurs at Castle Rock, where one character is killed by a boulder released by Roger. In its eighth chapter, Simon loses consciousness after imagining himself engulfed by the mouth of the title entity. In its last chapter, Sam and Eric reveal the hiding place of the protagonist, who is hunted by Jack after the death of Piggy leaves him as the lone representative of order. A group of boys degenerate into savagery after being shipwrecked on an island in, FTP, what novel by William Golding?	Lord of the Flies	Lord_of_the_Flies	True
844	The naming of Yuan-chan as an Imperial Consort brings great pride to the family in the beginning of this work, and her later death begins the clan's fall from favor. Early versions of the novel, featuring 80 chapters, were hand copied with commentary by Red Inkstone. Compassion Spring, Pervading Fragrance, and Bright Design are serving maids of the protagonist, who is tricked by the Chia family, including Madame Wang and the Lady Dowager, into agreeing to marry Pao-Chai, after which Tai-yu, or Black Jade, dies. Pao-yu is born with a mystical jade piece in his mouth at the beginning of, FTP, which Qing dynasty classic, written by Cao Xueqin?	Dream of the Red Chamber [or A Dream of Red Mansions or Story of the Stone or Honglou Meng; accept clear knowledge equivalents]	Dream_of_the_Red_Chamber	True
845	"A chord consisting of all seven notes of the A-flat harmonic minor scale forms the ostinato at the beginning of this work's second movement. Two tetrachords related by tritone in the fifth movement and four superimposed dominant-seventh chords in the third are two ways in which the composer creates octatonic harmonies and this work opens with a solo bassoon one octave above middle C. Featuring sections such as ""Ritual of the Rival Tribes,"" it is divided into two large parts entitled ""The Adoration of the Earth"" and ""The Sacrifice"". FTP, identify this ballet originally choreographed by Nijinsky and composed by Stravinsky, which caused riots at its 1913 premiere."	The Rite of Spring [or Le sacre du printemps or Vesna svyashchennaya]	The_Rite_of_Spring	True
846	This author described a woman who became the mistress of her late husband's father in his novel Thirst for Love and he detailed the relationship between Shinji and Hatsue in another novel. Noboru spies on his mother, who makes love to Fusako, in another work by this author, whose most autobiographical novel describes the confusion of Kochan. In addition to The Sailor Who Fell from Grace with the Sea and Confessions of a Mask, this author traced the life of Honda in a tetralogy named for a lunar mare (mah-ray). Another of his novels centers on Mizoguchi, a Zen Buddhist who burns down the title religious building. FTP, name this Japanese author of The Sea of Fertility and The Temple of the Golden Pavilion.	Mishima Yukio	The_Temple_of_the_Golden_Pavilion	False
847	Due to this phenomenon, the Breit-Wigner formula must be altered in practical use. It contributes a negative temperature coefficient of reactivity to uranium-fueled nuclear reactors, since it increases U-238's absorption cross-section through its namesake broadening; because that same broadening applies to spectral lines, the formula for this effect can be applied to spectra to determine gas temperatures. It can be used for non-invasive flow measurements, as in echocardiograms. An instance of it is redshift. It is exploited in radar technologies utilized by police and meteorologists, though it is perhaps best observed when the frequency of a siren increases and decreases as it passes an observer. FTP, name this effect, a shift discovered in 1842 by its namesake Dutch scientist.	the Doppler effect [or Doppler shift]	Uranium	False
848	One party in this conflict was led for part of it by the namesake of a battleship famous in a later conflict, the Duke of Caxias. This clash was precipitated by the ouster of Atan?io Aguirre. Victory at Curupayty forestalled defeat for the eventual losers, whose fate was practically sealed after the naval Battle of Riachuelo. This war's namesake treaty was the brainchild of Bartolom?Mitre, who favored the Colorado Party over the Blanco Party in Uruguay. FTP, name this conflict in which Paraguay under Francisco Solano L?ez was eventually defeated by the namesake entity, consisting of Argentina, Brazil, and Uruguay.	"the War of the Triple Alliance [or Guerra de la Triple Alianza or Guerra da Tr?lice Alian?; accept Paraguayan War before ""Paraguay"" and prompt on it afterwards]"	Paraguayan_War	True
849	"In the third section, the speaker states that the title character's ""soul transpires / At every pore with instant fires."" The poet warns of ""Deserts of vast eternity,"" and states that his ""vegetable love should grow / Faster than empires, and more slow."" This poem's first section imagines the title character discovering rubies by the Ganges, while in the final section, the poet wishes to roll ""all / Our sweetness"" into ""one ball"" in order to ""tear our pleasures with rough strife / Thorough the iron gates of life."" Opening by asking ""Had we but world enough, and time,"" FTP, name this carpe diem poem by Andrew Marvell which exhorts the title woman to sleep with the speaker."	"""To His Coy Mistress"""	To_His_Coy_Mistress	True
850	The Chibchas held that this, under the name Bochica, had civilized their people, though his wife tried to destroy them. In Incan myth, Cuzco was founded by this, which then provided eggs of gold, silver, and copper, from which were born kings, priests, and slaves. In Chinese myth, Ban Gu held it in his left hand, while in another story, the divine archer Shen Yi shot nine false ones. In Norse tradition, it will be devoured by the wolf Skoll, who has been pursuing it since his birth, at Ragnarok. In Greek mythology, Zeus killed Pha?hon because his inexperience driving its chariot began to scorch the earth. FTP, identify this object, also associated with Ra and Helios.	Sun	Helios	False
851	The protagonist of this work confides to another character that he had hoped to send her to the Conservatory. Oversleeping his alarm by two and a half hours, the protagonist of this work tries to roll out of bed to go to work, but the Manager quickly runs down the stairs after entering his room. While Grete initially tries to help him by providing milk, her father pummels the protagonist with apples, one of which lodges itself in his back and eventually causes his death. Gregor Samsa discovers that he has undergone the title transformation into a giant insect at the beginning of, FTP, which short story by Franz Kafka?	"""The Metamorphosis"" or ""Die Verwandlung"""	The_Metamorphosis	True
852	"A chess automaton kills its inventor in this author's short story ""Moxon's Master,"" which appears in his collection Can Such Things Be? This author of Fantastic Fables wrote about a deaf child who takes dying soldiers from the title battle to his house in his short story ""Chickamauga."" Nicknamed ""bitter,"" this author disappeared after traveling to Mexico and possibly joining up with Pancho Villa. Another of his works defines ""learning"" as ""The kind of ignorance distinguishing the studious,"" while one of his stories centers on Peyton Farquhar, who fantasizes about escaping his hanging. FTP, name this cynical American author of ""An Occurrence at Owl Creek Bridge"" and The Devil's Dictionary."	Ambrose Gwinnett Bierce	Pancho_Villa	False
853	This author argued that the Ring cycle was an allegory about industrial exploitation in The Perfect Wagnerite. Anthony Anderson saves the life of Dick Dudgeon in this author's only play set in America, The Devil's Disciple. He wrote about Ariadne Utterword and Hesione Hushabye, the daughters of Captain Shotover, in Heartbreak House. Raina leaves her fiancee Sergius for the Swiss soldier Bluntschli in one of his Plays Pleasant, Arms and the Man. His other protagonists include the idealistic daughter of Andrew Undershaft, and Henry Higgins, who wins a bet by refining the speech of Eliza Doolittle. FTP, name this British playwright of Major Barbara and Pygmalion.	George Bernard Shaw	Pygmalion_(play)	False
854	This author wrote about Franz and Elizabeth's deaths at the Cholula pyramid in his novel A Change of Skin. In another of his novels, Federico Robles loses his wife and wealth in a house fire, while Pollo Phoibee falls into the Seine as the scene changes to the assassination of Tiberius Caesar in his novel Terra Nostra. This author of Christopher Unborn wrote about Felipe Montero's desire for the title girl, who transforms into a 109-year old woman, in his novel Aura. In another of his novels, the title revolutionary tycoon recalls his life while on his deathbed. FTP, name this Mexican author of Where the Air is Clear, The Old Gringo, and The Death of Artemio Cruz.	Carlos Fuentes	Carlos_Fuentes	True
855	"This artist's interest in ancient Roman busts can be seen in the bronze reliquary he created for the head of St. Rossore. Partners with the goldsmith Michelozzo, he created a statue of St. George holding a narrow, cross-laden shield that is housed today in Orsanmichele, and he carved a wooden statue of a haggard and emaciated Mary Magdalene. He allegedly yelled ""Speak, damn you, speak"" at the marble while working on his depiction of the prophet Habbakuk, also known as the Zucchone. He also created an equestrian statue of Erasmo da Narni and the first freestanding nude since antiquity. FTP, name this sculptor of Gattamelata and the bronze David."	Donatello or Donato di Niccolo di Betto Bardi	Donatello	True
856	This play opens as Miss Juliana enters her nephew's house, followed by the servant Bertha, who places a bouquet of flowers on the piano. Having returned from her honeymoon, the title character reads the attached card, which reveals that her old friend will later visit. Later on, that friend's husband commits suicide in Madame Diana's boudoir, having been encouraged by the title character, whose jealousy of Thea Elvsted causes her to burn his manuscript. After Judge Brack threatens to reveal the circumstances of Eilert Lovborg's death, the title character commits suicide with one of her father's pistols at the end of, FTP, what play about the wife of George Tesman by Henrik Ibsen?	Hedda Gabler	Hedda_Gabler	True
857	One subclass of this organelle features the microsomal P450 oxidase system, which plays a key role in the first-pass effect through the liver. Another variation of this organelle contains the protein calsequestrin, important in regulating skeletal muscle contraction. In neurons this organelle produces many neurotransmitters, stains purple when exposed to aniline, and thus is referred to as Nissl substance. Its most famous functions, however, are either lipid synthesis or protein production. FTP, name this organelle continuous with the nuclear membrane that comes in sarcoplasmic, smooth, and rough varieties.	"endoplasmic reticulum [accept smooth endoplasmic reticulum before ""calsequestrin""]"	Cell_membrane	False
858	"A ""military medical commission"" digs up a corpse and marches it with fanfare through a crowd in this author's poem ""The Legend of the Dead Soldier."" A wealthy merchant unjustly shoots his servant while crossing the Yahi Desert in his play The Exception and the Rule, while Azdak awards Michael to Grusha after she refuses to pull him out of the title location of his play The Caucasian Chalk Circle. The title character of another of his plays sees the deaths of Eilif, Swiss Cheese, and Kattrin while pulling her canteen during the Thirty Years War. Believing that actors should strive for an ""alienation effect"" to distance themselves from the audience, FTP, name this German playwright of The Threepenny Opera and Mother Courage and Her Children."	Bertolt Brecht	Switzerland	False
859	Riots against this nation's government in the mid-80s culminated in the uprising of workers at the Red Star tractor works outside of Brasov in 1987, though its regime was finally toppled when protests over the arrest of Pastor L?l?T?k? crystallized into outright revolt, led primarily by the National Salvation Front.  Earlier, it had been led by the Sigmaringen kings and the fascist Iron Guard. Ethnic violence broke out during the fall of communism in Tirgu Mures and was centered on its Hungarian minority. Its Ploesti oil fields were a Nazi objective in WWII, and on December 25, 1989, Ion Iliescu led a coup which saw the murder of its longtime Communist dictator, Nicolae Ceausescu. FTP, name this Eastern European country with capital Bucharest.	Romania	Nicolae_Ceaușescu	False
860	"The operator problem of this name can be solved by the so-called ""algebraic method"" using the raising and lowering operators and was solved by Dirac to model photons. The utility of this model arises because of the nature of the first-order expansion of a potential energy about an equilibrium. The equation by this name arises from a quadratic-potential Lagrangian or from combining Newton's second law and Hooke's law. This is therefore a good model for a perturbed atom, AC circuit, first-order pendulum, or mass on a spring. FTP, name these physical systems that, if unforced, have sinusoidal motion."	harmonic oscillators [prompt on oscillators; accept quantum or simple harmonic oscillators]	Paul_Dirac	False
861	"The E major tempo d'attacco of this opera's Act III duet is followed by a cantabile in A-flat major and the C major cabaletta ""Gran Dio! morir si giovane,"" and that cantabile is called ""Parigi, o cara."" A melody first heard in an Act I duet on the words ""Di quell'amor ch'?palpito"" reappears several times, once in the orchestra as the heroine reads a letter from her lover's father, once interrupting her cabaletta ""Sempre libera,"" and once sung by the heroine herself in ""Ah! fors'?lui."" That act I duet, ""Un di felice, eterea"" is not as famous as the brindisi ""Libiamo ne' lieti calici."" FTP, identify this opera about the love between Alfredo and the title ""fallen woman,"" Violetta, a work of Giuseppe Verdi."	La Traviata	La_traviata	True
862	During a visit to Barbara Smith's home in this novel, one character finds out that Sibeko's daughter was arrested for distilling liquor. By the end of the novel, the protagonist's fellow villagers receive gifts, including milk for the children and the hiring of Napoleon Letsitsi to teach farming techniques. Before leaving Mrs. Lithebe's home, Msimangu decides to become a monk and thus gives the protagonist all of his possessions. Having left Ndotsheni to help his sick sister Gertrude, the reverend also found his son, who was sentenced to death for murder of Arthur Jarvis. Absalom is still hanged, despite the help of Stephen Kumalo, at the end of, FTP, which novel by Alan Paton?	Cry, the Beloved Country	Cry,_the_Beloved_Country	True
863	Travis Bogard edited the Library of America volumes of this author, who never finished his planned cycle A Tale of Possessors Self-Dispossessed. He first gained attention with four one-act plays about the S.S. Glencairn, including The Long Voyage Home and The Moon of the Caribbees, and wrote about the conflict between Andrew and Robert Mayo in Beyond the Horizon. This member of the Provincetown Players had characters wear masks onstage in The Great God Brown, and adapted The Oresteia for his trilogy Mourning Becomes Electra. FTP, name this American playwright of Desire Under the Elms, The Iceman Cometh, and Long Day's Journey Into Night.	Eugene O'Neill	Eugene_O'Neill	True
864	The author of Philosophy of the Revolution, this man saw his shining foreign policy moment at the Treaty of Bandung; later missteps included involving his nation in the Yemeni civil war. The target of a 1954 assassination attempt at the hands of the Muslim Brotherhood, he rose to power earlier that year following Mohammed Naguib's fall from grace after the overthrow of King Farouk. Before leading his country into an ill-fated union with Syria, he defied the West with his handling of the Aswan High Dam Project and the Suez Canal. FTP, name this president of Egypt from 1956 to 1970.	Gamal Abdel Nasser	Egypt	False
865	One of this man's paintings depicts a girl wearing a blue dress and red hat who enigmatically glances to the right, and is titled The Terrace. One of his paintings depicts a basket-toting red-haired woman in front of a crowd toting the title Umbrellas. Portraits like Jeanne Samary and Madame Charpentier and Her Children provided his later income. A child wearing a red bow is the subject of his Girl With a Watering Can, while another work depicts some bare-armed dudes in straw hats, women in fancy dresses, and men in top hats eating and commiserating under an awning. FTP, name this French painter of Le Moulin de la Galette and Luncheon of the Boating Party.	Pierre-Auguste Renoir	Luncheon_of_the_Boating_Party	False
866	One character in this novel is initially uninterested in Riemann surface tennis and obstacle golf, and loses social standing when the protagonist refuses to appear before the Arch-Community Songster. Beginning with an explanation of the Bokanovsky Technique, this novel focuses on dissatisfied characters like Helmholtz Watson, who is exiled by World Controller Mustapha Mond. Its protagonist commits suicide after being seen whipping himself by Lenina and had earlier caused a riot among Deltas by throwing away their soma. Named for a line from The Tempest, FTP, name this novel in which Bernard Marx brings John the Savage to the World State, a dystopia by Aldous Huxley.	Brave New World	Brave_New_World	True
867	"In the Nathanael West novel The Dream Life of Balso Snell, a flea named Saint Puce spent his entire life in the armpit of this person. The title character of Flannery O'Connor's short story ""Parker's Back"" gets a tattoo of this man, who, in a poem by Alexander Blok, leads twelve Red Army soldiers. Jos?Saramago wrote a novel about The Gospel According to this religious figure, who was posed the titular question by Paul in the Henryk Sienkiewicz novel Quo Vadis?. FTP, name this prophet who dies at the beginning of P? Lagerkvist's novel Barabbas and whose ""last temptation"" was chronicled by Nikos Kazantzakis."	Jesus Christ (accept either name)	José_Saramago	False
868	"Late in life, this thinker gave a series of lectures dealing with the ancient concept of parrhesia. Another work contains an examination of what he calls the ""analytic of finitude"" and discusses how ""cogito ergo sum"" fails to hold within the modern episteme. That work begins with a discussion of Vel?quez's Las Meninas and is entitled The Order of Things. He developed the concept of the ""medical gaze"" in The Birth of the Clinic, and other works include a planned six-volume work whose first part is The Will to Knowledge, as well as a work discussing Bentham's Panopticon. FTP, identify this French thinker, author of The History of Sexuality and Discipline and Punish."	Michel Foucault	Jeremy_Bentham	False
869	The title character of this work has a dream in which he drinks milk from the breast of his best friend, who had just turned into a woman. In another dream, he releases a songbird from its golden cage and throws it out onto the street. That bird's owner helps the title character get a job as a businessman with Kamaswami, which allows him to learn the ways of love from the courtesan Kamala. At the beginning of this work, the title character had left his father and joined the Samanas, and he ends his journey at Vasudeva's river. This is where Govinda finds the title character, who kisses him so that he too may achieve nirvana. FTP, name this Herman Hesse novel about Buddha.	Siddhartha	John_Cage	False
870	"His orchestral works include Two Elegiac Melodies for Strings and the overture In Autumn, and one of this composer's major song cycles is entitled Haugtussa. The third of his best-known group of piano pieces is a ""Watchman's Song"" inspired by Macbeth, and Wedding Day at Troldhaugen is another one of those 66 Lyric Pieces. Also known for a piece that includes such movements as ""The Abduction of the Bridge"", Ingrid's Lament"", ""Anitra's Dance"", and ""Morning Mood"". FTP, identify this Norwegian composer of incidental music to Peer Gynt, including the famous ""In the Hall of the Mountain King""."	Edvard Grieg	Peer_Gynt	False
871	"One work by this philosopher has a second section dealing with science entitled ""Philosophy of Nature"" and an opening section often called the ""lesser Logic,"" referring to another work by this philosopher whose three sections are about ""being,"" ""essence,"" and ""concept,"" respectively. Those two works, Encyclopedia of the Philosophical Sciences and Science of Logic, are not as famous as Philosophy of Right and a work that posits the attainment of a state of ""Absolute Knowledge,"" Phenomenology of Spirit. FTP, identify this German philosopher best known for his conception of dialectics."	Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel	The_Phenomenology_of_Spirit	False
872	"Martin Esslin analyzed the works of this author in The Peopled Wound. In one of this author's plays, Flora seduces a Matchseller who eventually replaces her husband Edward. In addition to A Slight Ache, this author wrote a play ending with Rose Hudd becoming blind, The Room, and wrote about the tramp Davies, who is evicted by brothers Mick and Aston, in The Caretaker. Another of this playwright's ""comedies of menace"" ends with Goldberg and McCann removing pianist Stanley Webber from a decrepit boarding house after the title celebration. FTP, name this British playwright of The Birthday Party and The Dumb Waiter."	Harold Pinter	The_Birthday_Party_(play)	False
873	"In Egypt, this deity's cult was governed by Ptolemy II Philopator, who was said to be a follower. In 186 BCE, the cult of this deity was ""discovered"" in Rome amid scandal following testimony by Hispala and Aebutius, and then suppressed. This god was associated with many others, including the Phrygian Sabazios and Zagreus of the religion of Orpheus, who was said to have started his cult. In one myth, he turned a group of pirates who kidnapped him into dolphins, and he was known as twice-born as he was delivered from Zeus's thigh after that god had taken him from the burned corpse of his mother, Semele. FTP, name this god of wine and revelry, often known as Bacchus?"	Dionysus [accept Bacchus before it's mentioned; prompt on Liber]	Dionysus	True
874	A thermal form of process can be seen in a mixed gas through the Soret effect, while another form involving momentum can be observed in the laminar flow of a liquid across a solid surface. When semiconductors are produced, certain layers are sometimes doped via this process, although ion implantation is typically preferred.The most commonly observed form of the phenomenon can be described by a law which shows that flux is proportional to the concentration gradient and in the direction of lower concentration, Fick's law. FTP, name this form of passive transport that involves spontaneous movement of particles from a higher concentration to a lower concentration.	diffusion	Semiconductor	False
875	"For many years it was called the Battle of Redemore, leading some to theorize that Ambion Hill was not its actual location. One participant in this battle marched from Milford Haven, while another was killed while repeatedly shouting the word ""treason."" The Duke of Norfolk died at the start of this battle, whose outcome was affected by the Earl of Northumberland and Lord Stanley deserting the losing side. FTP, name this battle followed by a mop-up action at Stoke, thus making this the not-quite-last battle of the War of the Roses, in which the Yorkist Richard III was defeated by the rising Lancastrian Henry VII."	Battle of Bosworth Field	Battle_of_Bosworth_Field	True
876	The Tebbe reaction uses a metal carbenoid to create molecules of this functional class, while the Peterson reaction allows chemists synthesizing them to favor a specific stereoisomer. Only one stereoisomer can be generated by the Julia reaction because its last step requires that R-chains be anti- to one another. They can also be created fromcarbonyls using an ylide in the Wittig reaction, but the easiest way to produce them is through a bimolecular E2 reaction. FTP, identify these molecules, such as ethene or propene, characterized by a carbon-carbon double bond.	alkenes [accept olefins]	Wittig_reaction	False
877	"In this novel's third section, Mrs. Skiffins marries Wemmick, and the protagonist is nearly killed by Orlick. One character in this novel marries the abusive nobleman Bentley Drummle after continually warning the protagonist that she has no heart. At the end of this novel, the protagonist begins working for the firm of Herbert Pocket, the ""pale young gentleman"" he had earlier fought at Satis House, whose clocks are all stopped at twenty minutes to nine. Throughout this novel, Mr. Jaggers gives the narrator money sent by an unknown benefactor, which turns out to be the ex-convict Abel Magwich instead of the wealthy Mrs. Havisham, who raises Estella to break men's hearts after being left at the altar on her wedding day. FTP, name this novel narrated by Pip, by Charles Dickens."	Great Expectations	Great_Expectations	True
878	"This author described the title food as ""the staff of life"" made from ""wood, cow dung, packed brown moss, the bodies of dead animals"" in the poem ""All Bread."" Anna's best friend returns to her home in the wilderness to accept her father's death in Surfacing, while this author wrote about Simon Jordan's investigation of Grace Mark's innocence in Alias Grace. Snowman is the last human being on Earth in this author's Oryx and Crake, while Marian Macalpin creates the title entity in her novel The Edible Woman. Another of her novels is set in the Republic of Gilead and centers on Offred. FTP, name this Canadian author of The Handmaid's Tale."	Margaret Atwood	The_Handmaid's_Tale	False
879	One of minor character in this play is Filipote, a servant to Madame Pernelle, who criticizes all members of the household except for the title character. While Madame Pernelle's son also shares her admiration, the wise servant Dorine can see the truth. At her suggestion, Damis hides in a closet to spy on the title character, who is announced as the future husband of the already-engaged Mariane. Only after overhearing advances made towards his wife Elmire does the gullible Orgon avoid losing all his property to the devious title character, who is eventually arrested. FTP, name this 1664 comedy about the schemes of the titular religious hypocrite, written by Moli?e.	Tartuffe	Tartuffe	True
880	In one of this author's short stories, Sally Carrol Happer returns to the South after being lost inside an ice palace. Jerry Frost is elected president before becoming a postman in his absurdist play The Vegetable. His first novel was originally titled The Romantic Egotist and centers on a friend of Thomas Park D'Invilliers who becomes a socialist after being encouraged by Monsignor Darcy to attend Princeton. He wrote about Gloria and Anthony Patch in The Beautiful and Damned and described Dick and Nicole Diver's struggle with mental illness in his novel Tender is the Night. FTP, name this American author of This Side of Paradise and The Great Gatsby.	Francis Scott Key Fitzgerald	Tender_Is_the_Night	False
881	Dividing this equation through by the acceleration of gravity gives you the head equation. This law can be derived by integrating the inviscid Newtonian Navier-Stokes equation along a streamline. It gains a term of the specific internal energy if the flow is compressible. A form of local energy conservation for an ideal fluid, it explains the Venturi effect and some aspects of flight. FTP, name this principle, usually stated as v-squared over two plus p over rho plus g z is constant; a principle of fluid mechanics named for a Swiss mathematician.	Bernoulli's principle (or Bernoulli's equation; accept similar phrases involving Bernoulli)	Bernoulli's_principle	True
882	"This man cross-dressed and posed for many photos as his female alter ego, Rose Selavy. One of his works was inspired by the positions of three lengths of thread allowed to fall at random, Three Standard Stoppages. Another of his works was accidentally shattered and depicts nine ""Malic Molds"" presided over by an insectoid mechanical form in the top panel, The Bride Stripped Bare By Her Bachelors, Even. More famous is a work signed ""R. Mutt"" and another that was inspired by Etienne-Jules Marey's stop-motion photography and scandalized the 1913 Armory Show. FTP, name this artist of the readymade Fountain and Nude Descending a Staircase."	Marcel Duchamp	Photography	False
883	The protagonist of this work enjoys the prelude to Wagner's Tannhauser, believing that it reflects the tragedy of his own soul. He attempts to console himself by dating Hetty Merton, whose heart he does not break, unlike that of his first love, a Shakespearean actress from the slums of London. That woman, Sybil Vane, commits suicide after she is rejected by the protagonist. He is driven to this life of sin by Henry Wotton, whose hedonistic world view convinces the protagonist to wish that he could remain young while Basil Hallward's title creation could grow old. However, the protagonist stabs the title painting at the end of, FTP, which novel by Oscar Wilde?	The Picture of Dorian Gray	Oscar_Wilde	False
884	"unique to this group includes their doctrines of ""downpression"" and ""overstanding"" as well as a mystical path to discerning the true meaning of poorly translated scriptures, called ""I-and-I."" Taking inspiration from the Kebra Negast and the Holy Piby, this group's sects include the Bobos and Twelve Tribes of Israel. Often scorning Babylonian tools, they follow the ""conquering lion of the tribe of Judah,"" a descendent of King David, as Jah incarnate. FTP, name these people who deify Haile Selassie, the late emperor of Ethiopia, and are frequently dreadlocked, ceremonial ganja-smoking followers of a Jamaican religious movement."	Rastafarians	Haile_Selassie	False
885	"He wrote about Lucretius, Dante, and Goethe in his Three Philosophical Poets and his major work in aesthetics asserts that aesthetic value lies in the individual rather than the object. Another work argues that knowledge is a result not of reasoning but rather a belief necessary for action, and he also described the four characteristics of knowledge as matter, essence, spirit, and truth. The author of The Sense of Beauty, Scepticism and Animal Faith, and Realms of Being, FTP, identify this Spanish-American philosopher and author of The Last Puritan who, in his The Life of Reason, wrote, ""Those who cannot remember the past are condemned to repeat it."""	George Santayana	Johann_Wolfgang_von_Goethe	False
886	"A white family disregards Nancy's fear that she will be murdered by her husband Jesus in this author's short story ""That Evening Sun."" His experiences as an aviator inspired his first novel, Soldier's Pay, while the protagonist of another of his novels confronts Ben Redmond without a gun. That novel, The Unvanquished, focuses on a man who later becomes the mayor of Jefferson, Bayard Sartoris. He also wrote about Joanna Burden, who is killed by her lover Joe Christmas, and Darl, who goes insane on a journey to bury his mother Addie Bundren. FTP, name this American author who set his novels Light in August, As I Lay Dying, and The Sound and the Fury in Yoknapatawpha County."	"William Faulkner [accept ""That Evening Sun"" until ""author's""]"	As_I_Lay_Dying	False
887	After setting out a plate of cucumber sandwiches, one character in this work notes that champagne in married households is rarely of a first-rate brand. Later on, another character appears at a Hertfordshire manor to announce the death of his brother, who has surprisingly preceded him and met with Cecily Cardew. Her guardian promises to approve of her marriage to the inventor of the fictional Bunbury after Lady Bracknell approves the marriage of another character, which she does after learning that he is the son Miss Prism left in a handbag in the cloakroom of Victoria Station. Ending with the engagements of Algernon Moncrieff and Jack Worthing, FTP, identify this play by Oscar Wilde.	The Importance of Being Earnest	The_Importance_of_Being_Earnest	True
888	"One statement of principles issued by the leaders of this event promised an end to ""evil customs of the past"" and stated that ""all classes shall be permitted to fulfill their just aspirations."" It was guided by an informal group known as the ""principal elders"" and used the slogan ""wealthy country and strong arms."" The Charter Oath and the Constitution of 1889 were important documents from this movement, which was named for the imperial title of Mutsuhito. FTP, identify this event involving the overthrow of the Tokugawa and the modernization of Japan."	The Meiji Restoration or Meiji Period	Tokugawa_shogunate	False
889	He invented his own system of proportions using human measurements known as the Modulor. Commissioned to replace a war-ravaged church, he designed a gigantic white stone-and-concrete structure with a sweeping roof, eccentric windows, and a silo-like projection, the Notre Dame du Haut. He discussed his five points of architecture in his influential essay collection Towards a New Architecture, a strategy exemplified in his Villa Savoye, and he co-designed the U.N.'s New York headquarters. FTP, name this early proponent of the International School, a Swiss/French architect.	Le Corbusier [or Charles-Edouard Jeanneret]	Le_Corbusier	True
890	"This author wrote about men who throw coins into a woman's vagina to win two hours alone with her in the story ""Toad's Mouth."" Longer fiction by this author includes a work about Eliza Sommers, who follows her husband to California with the help of Tao Chi'en, as well as a work whose title girl is helped by Riad Halabi, Elvira, and Huberto Naranjo before meeting Rolf Carl? In addition to Daughter of Fortune and Eva Luna, this author also wrote a novel about the downfall of the Trueba family after the death of Blanca's clairvoyant mother Clara, who lives in the title structure. FTP, name this magic realist Chilean author of The House of the Spirits."	Isabel Allende Llona	The_House_of_the_Spirits	False
891	"Sets of variations by this composer include one on a theme from Ferdinand H?old's opera Ludovic, as well as one for piano and orchestra on ""La ci darem la mano"" from Mozart's Don Giovanni. His more famous solo piano compositions include the Allegro de Concert, the Andante Spianato, and a Berceuse in D-flat major. Another group of piano compositions by him includes a G-sharp minor piece in which the right hand plays almost entirely in parallel thirds, as well as pieces commonly titled ""Aeolian Harp,"" ""Tristesse,"" ""Winter Wind,"" and ""Revolutionary."" FTP, identify this composer of etudes, polonaises, waltzes, and nocturnes; a Pole."	Frederic Chopin	Piano_concerto	False
892	"The structure of this poem's second part is based on Christopher Smart's Jubilate Agno. The end of its first section quotes Christ's last words to describe ""cities [shivered] down to their last radio."" Its second section asks ""What Sphinx of cement and aluminum...ate up their brains and imagination,"" and curses the Canaanite god Moloch. Dedicated to Carl Solomon, this poem describes people hallucinating ""Blake-light tragedy among the scholars of war,"" and centers on the experiences of ""angelheaded hipsters"" like Herbert Huncke and Neal Cassady. Beginning ""I saw the best minds of my generation destroyed by madness,"" FTP, name this poem by Allan Ginsberg."	"""Howl"""	Howl	True
893	In his role as a creator, this god was connected with the construction goddess Sefkhet-Aabut, and he absorbed the role of the Theban god Khensu. As the ape-headed Aan, this god governed the equinoxes and cleansed the Eye of Ra. When Horus was stabbed by Aun-Ab, Isis summoned this god, a patron of magic and medicine, to heal him. At the judgment of the dead, he measured the deceased's heart against the feather of Maat, and he taught Isis, and later the pharaohs, the art of mummification. Associated in Hellenistic times with Hermes, FTP, this is what Egyptian deity, the inventor of writing and god of the moon, wisdom, and learning, often depicted with the head of an ibis?	Thoth [or Thout or Tehuti or Djehuty]	Isis	False
894	"In this literary collection, Rubens, Rembrandt, Goya, and five other artists, are described in the work titled ""The Beacons,"" while the work ""Benediction"" describes its author's feelings of rejection after his mother remarried. The deaths of lovers, the poor, and artists are described in the last section of this work, which had a new section, describing the streets of its author's hometown, added to it in 1861. Only five poems appear in its section ""Wine,"" while ""The Denial of St. Peter"" and ""The Litanies of Satan"" appear in its third section, ""Revolt."" ""Spleen and Ideal"" is the first and longest section of, FTP, what poetry collection by Charles Baudelaire?"	The Flowers of Evil or Les Fleurs du Mal	Charles_Baudelaire	False
895	These compounds are useful to produce drugs such as Tamoxifen by reducing ketone side groups. As an undesirable side reaction, they can convert haloethers to alkenes by the Boord olefin synthesis, and their synthesis always produces Schlenk equilibrium. Before use of these compounds, one must flush the reaction vessel with nitrogen, as they are highly reactive with oxygen, and they are usually dissolved in either THF or diethyl ether. Used to form strong nucleophiles and eventually carbon-carbon bonds, they are produced by reacting an organohalide with magnesium. FTP, identify these compounds, named for the French chemist who won the 1912 Nobel Prize for their discovery.	Grignard reagents	Alkene	False
896	"This author collaborated with Gene Weltfish to support human equality and bash fascism in ""The Races of Mankind."" This anthropologist described the Pueblo culture of New Mexico and the Dobu culture of New Guinea and argued that morality is relative to unique cultural values in Patterns of Culture. The most famous work of this author contrasts the ""guilt culture"" of a the West with the ""shame culture"" of a certain nation and stemmed from research during World War II. FTP, name identify this anthropologist, who wrote about imperial Japan in The Chrysanthemum and the Sword."	Ruth Benedict or Ruth Fulton	The_Chrysanthemum_and_the_Sword	False
897	"Among his works for solo organ are Three Rhapsodies on Breton Melodies, and he wrote two cello concertos, Op. 33 in A minor and Op. 119 in D minor. His symphonic poems include La jeunesse d'Hercule and Le rouet d'Omphale. His most famous opera features the aria ""Mon coeur s'ouvre ?ta voix"" and a famous bacchanal. Another of his works contains a movement which quotes Rossini's ""Una voce poco fa,"" Fossils, as well as ones entitled Aquarium, Pianists, and The Swan. FTP, identify this French composer of Samson and Delilah, the Organ Symphony, and The Carnival of the Animals."	Camille Saint-Saens	Gioachino_Rossini	False
898	He once won a fight with the god of death over who was to give water to Ajamila, and he towed a boat to Mount Himavan to save a man from a flood. He once stopped the demon Hiaranyaksha from pushing the world under the sea, and he will appear as a warrior riding a white horse at the end of the Kali Yuga. The goddess of Wealth lives in his torso, and his other consorts include the goddesses of earth and devotion, Bhuavevi and Neeladvi. Riding the son of Kashyap, the giant bird Garuda, this god has appeared as fish, a dwarf, or a man with an axe. FTP, name this Hindu preserver god who forms the trimurti with Brahma and Shiva and whose avatars include Rama and Krishna.	Vishnu	Brahma	False
899	After centuries of revolts, such as the Thokoly Uprising, limited autonomy for what is now this country was guaranteed in the Augsleich.This country's Nazi puppet government was led by the Arrow Cross Party, and in 1919 it was briefly led by the Soviet-style government of Bela Kun. Much of its territory was lost in the Treaty of Trianon, and under Imre Nagy (NAJ), this nation made a failed attempt to leave the Warsaw Pact in 1956. The medieval ancestor of this modern-day country was founded by Stephen I, leader of the Magyars. FTP, name this country which was nominally joined with Austria before World War I.	Hungary or Magyarorsz?	Soviet_Union	False
900	These can be synthesized by ozonolysis of an alkene with a vinylic hydrogen or by treating an ester with sodium aluminum hydride. Blue copper sulfate is reduced to a red-colored copper oxide when these compounds are present in the Benedict Test. Treatment with Tollens' reagent converts them into carboxylic acids. Classically deriving from the dehydrogenation of alcohols, FTP, name these organic compounds which end in a terminal carbonyl group.	"aldehydes [prompt on ""formyls"" or ""methanoyls""]"	Copper	False
901	"One work by this philosopher, addressed to an anonymous ""Honoured Sir,"" argues that the government should not enforce religious views. Another work argues that Christian doctrine and rational philosophy are compatible. In addition to A Letter Concerning Toleration and The Reasonableness of Christianity, he wrote a refutation of Robert Filmer that is the first of a pair of works defending the ascension of William of Orange, and Book I of another work attacks the idea of innate knowledge, positing the tabula rasa model of the mind. FTP, author of Two Treatises on Government and An Essay Concerning Human Understanding, who supported the right to life, liberty, and property."	John Locke	An_Essay_Concerning_Human_Understanding	False
902	After three days of plague, Gad instructed him to build an altar on the threshing floor of Araunah the Jebusite to repent for commanding Joab to take a census of Israel, and Sheba was one of many who tried to overthrow him. A story of a rich man who stole a poor man's ewe lamb was used by Nathan to rebuke him for sending Uriah the Hittite into battle in order to obtain his wife Bathsheba, who bore his son Solomon. FTP, name this Israelite king whose best friend Jonathan was the son of his rival Saul, who wrote numerous Psalms and killed Goliath.	David	David	True
903	"Thomas Mann's work The Transposed Heads is subtitled ""A Legend of"" this country, a journey to which was the subject of a poem that asks the reader, ""seest thou not God's purpose from the first""? In Shusaku Endo's Silence, Kichigiro is taken from this country to help Sebastian Rodrigues enter Japan, and the authors of The Middleman and Other Stories, Clear Light of Day, and The Guide hail from this country. The title gem in Wilkie Collins's The Moonstone was stolen by John Herncastle in this country, where Gibreel Farishta is a film star in another novel. FTP, name this country, to which Adela Quested and Mrs. Moore make ""A Passage To"" in an E.M. Forster novel."	India	E._M._Forster	False
904	"This work's protagonist associates a piece of music called ""Solitude"" with a naked man abandoned by a fleeing bird. After Raoul comes down with a fever, the protagonist is rebuked for her ""habitual neglect of the children."" Opening with a parrot repeating, ""Allez vouz-en! Allez vouz-en! Sapristi!,"" this novel's protagonist is offered help by Doctor Mandelet and is inspired by her piano teacher, Mademoiselle Reisz. The protagonist has an affair with Alc? Arobin and loves Robert Lebrun, even though she is married to L?nce. Ending with the protagonist returning to Grand Isle and committing suicide by wading into the sea, FTP, name this novel about Edna Pontellier, by Kate Chopin."	The Awakening	The_Awakening_(Chopin_novel)	True
905	The Treaty of T?ngsberg secured concessions for it from the Norwegian king Eric II Priest-hater, while the relocation of a Kontor to Dordrecht induced Philip the Bold to renew its privileges. Piracy by the Victualler Brethren was long a threat to it, especially during the slow break up of the Union of Calmar. The Treaty of Straslund with Waldemar IV of Denmark marked its apex. Before that pact, Waldemar had sacked one member, Visby in Gotland, though by the time of its demise 300 years later, only Bremen, Hamburg, and L?beck remained as major centers. FTP, name this medieval trade organization, which dominated commerce throughout most of Northern Europe.	Hanseatic League or Hansa	Hanseatic_League	True
906	The spherical helix is the tangent indicatrix of a curve of constant this. A relativistic form of it occurs for bound electrons due to their being in non-inertial frames and is named for Thomas. Vector quantities generally undergo this phenomenon when orthogonal to their time derivatives. A second-order type of this motion is called nutation. Analysis of the best-known type of it requires the understanding that the torque due to gravity is the time derivative of the angular velocity. FTP, name this physical phenomenon, a periodic change axial direction of a rotating object, exhibited by gyroscopes and spinning tops.	precession	Velocity	False
907	"His opus 113 is a collection of four pieces for viola and piano entitled M?chenbilder. More famous is a song cycle in which the singer's final word falls on a half-diminished ii6/5 [two six five] chord, giving way to an extended piano postlude in the parallel major of the main key of the final song, ""Die alten, b?sen Lieder."" ""Ich grolle nicht"" is another movement of that cycle, Dichterliebe. This composer also wrote a piano piece whose first movement alludes to Beethoven's An die ferne Geliebte and a collection whose most famous piece is ""Tr?merei."" FTP, identify this composer who, in addition to Fantasy in C and Scenes from Childhood, wrote the ""Rhenish"" and ""Spring"" symphonies."	Robert Schumann	Piano_sonatas_(Beethoven)	False
908	"He attacked ""vicious intellectualism"" and praised Bergson and Fechner in a series of lectures collected as A Pluralistic Universe. Another lecture collection, subtitled A Study in Human Nature, often uses the work of Edwin Starbuck to illustrate his points about experiences of being, like ""healthy-mindedness,"" the ""sick soul,"" and the ""divided self."" These were given during his Gifford Lectures at Edinburgh, Scotland and entitled The Varieties of Religious Experience. For 10 points, name this American philosopher whose lectures were also published with the title Pragmatism, a concept he advanced."	William James	William_James	True
909	This character avoids capture by the Oreillons when he proves that he is not a Jesuit. A slave-owner steals a jewel-encrusted sheep from him, but he recovers it when that slave-owner's ship is sunk, and he later loses some of his wealth to Parisians. He was befriended by James the Anabaptist after deserting the Bulgarian army, which occurred after he was booted out of Baron Thunder-ten-tronckh's castle. Cacambo leads him to Paraguay sometime after leaving Portugal, where he witnesses the hanging of his philosophical teacher, Dr. Pangloss. FTP, name this lover of Cunegonde, the optimistic title character of a work by Voltaire.	Candide	Candide	True
910	The composition of this group can generally be expressed in terms percentage albite, anorthite, and K- endmembers. Molecules of all members of this family contain eight oxygens and are aluminosillicates with traces of potassium, calcium, or sodium. Members of this mineral family include labradorite, perthite, sanidine, and microcline. The last mineral family before the branch fork in Bowen's reaction series, they have orthoclase and plagioclase forms. FTP, name these minerals that make up the majority of the Earth's crust.	feldspars	Feldspar	True
911	"This author asked the Lord to avenge ""thy slaughter'd Saints, whose bones / Lie scatter'd on the Alpine mountains cold"" in his sonnet about the ""Late Massacre in Piedmont."" Another of his sonnets describes how soon ""Time, the subtle thief of youth"" has stolen ""on his wing"" his ""three and twentieth year."" He wrote ""Hence vain deluding joyes"" in the companion piece to his poem ""L'Allegro,"" ""Il Penseroso,"" and foretold the ruin of the ""Corrupted clergy"" in his monody inspired by the death of Edward King, ""Lycidas"". Jesus says ""Tempt not the Lord thy God"" to defeat Satan in the climax of the sequel to his epic poem about ""man's first disobedience, and the fruit."" FTP, name this British poet of Paradise Regained and Paradise Lost."	John Milton	Paradise_Lost	False
912	"In one of this author's short stories, an Italian maid brings an American couple the title animal on the orders of a hotel padrone. In another, Bugs uses a blackjack to calm down an ex-prizefighter turned hobo named Ad Francis. In addition to ""Cat in the Rain"" and ""The Battler,"" this author wrote about Richard Cantwell, who returns to Venice and begins an affair with Renata in his novel Across the River and Into the Trees. He wrote about Nick Adams in his collection In Our Time, and he described Robert Jordan's attempt to blow up a bridge during the Spanish Civil War in For Whom the Bell Tolls. FTP, name this American author of The Sun Also Rises and A Farewell to Arms."	Ernest Hemingway	For_Whom_the_Bell_Tolls	False
913	"This author wrote about the psychological disintegration of Kayerts and Carlier in ""An Outpost of Progress."" He wrote that his task was ""to make you hear, to make you feel...above all, to make you see"" in the preface to his novel about James Wait, and he coauthored Romance and The Inheritors with Ford Madox Ford.  Mr. Verloc fails to blow up the Greenwich Observatory in his novel The Secret Agent, while he wrote about a rebellion in Costaguana in Nostromo. The title character of another of his novels moves to Patusan after abandoning the Patna. FTP, name this author of Lord Jim who described Marlow's encounter with the ivory trader Kurtz in Heart of Darkness."	Joseph Conrad (or J?ef Teodor Konrad Korzeniowski)	Heart_of_Darkness	False
914	One of his works shows a dove's silhouette on the sky above the beach, while another shows a winged man next to a lion and is called Homesickness.  Another of his paintings depicts a canvas that matches up with the view from a window in Euclidean Promenades.  He replaced the central figure of David's Madame Recamier with a coffin, and he depicted raining men in Golconde.  Another of his works has a contradictory inscription and depicts a pipe, while in another a train emerges from a fireplace.  FTP, name this painter who painted The Treachery of Images and Time Transfixed, also known for a work showing dude in a bowler hat with an apple in front of his face, Son of Man.	Rene Francois Ghislain Magritte	Jacques-Louis_David	False
915	"This author wrote a retelling of John the Baptist's beheading in ""Herodias,"" which appeared in his Three Tales, along with ""Saint Julian"" and ""A Simple Heart."" Hilarion and the Queen of Sheba are among those who entice the title character of his The Temptation of Saint Anthony, while the title Carthaginian princess submits to the advances of Math?in his Salammb? Better known works by this author include one about Rosanette and Madame Arnoux, the love interests of Frederic Moreau, while the title character of another novel takes Leon Dupuis and Rodolphe Boulanger as her lovers. FTP, name this French author of A Sentimental Education and Madame Bovary."	Gustave Flaubert	Madame_Bovary	False
916	"His apprenticeship featured plein-air works such as Morning, while History shows an older man and a young boy sitting under the shade of an oak tree. The Day After depicts a woman sleeping next to abandoned liquor bottles, while his Madonna offers herself to the viewer as she stands next to an embryo. His self portraits include one ""between a clock and a bed"" and one ""in hell."" It was in Berlin that he began a 22 painting cycle that he would title The Frieze of Life, as well as complete his most celebrated pictures including Puberty and Vampire. His most famous work depicts an orange and red sky in the background as a bald man on a bridge holds his head and emits the titular shout. FTP, name this Norwegian artist of The Scream."	Edvard Munch	The_Scream	False
917	Sufferers of this disease often develop clubbing in the extremities, and male patients are often infertile because of blockage or failed development of the vas deferens.  Hypothesized to have a high prevalence due to conferring a heterozygote advantage against cholera and salmonella, the most common mutation causing this disease is the deletion of phenylalanine-508 in its namesake ABC transporter, which is coded on chromosome 7.  Diagnosed by the sweat test, FTP, name this chloride channelopathy that causes a massive buildup of mucus in many epithelial tissues, most notably the lungs.	Cystic Fibrosis or CF	Cystic_fibrosis	True
918	"Max Klinger completed a cycle ""Of"" this figure, while Egon Schiele's work depicts this figure hugging a woman. Moreau depicts him behind a young man and in a painting by Erhard Schon he is muscular and carries a spear in both hands.  J.M.W. Turner depicted him carrying nothing in an amazingly blurry painting and the artist of The Forest of Arden featured him in a work alternately titled The Race Track. He is depicted alongside a ""maiden"" by Hans Baldung Grien, while in a Benjamin West painting this figure wears a gold crown and, as in the aforementioned Albert Pinkham Ryder work, rides a pale horse.  FTP, name this figure whose Triumph was depicted by Breughel the Elder."	Death	The_Night_Watch	False
919	The main character wakes up at 5:30 after having a dream about trees and decides to go to his mother's to get an aspirin.  The narrator's sister, Margot, invites the protagonist to her house, and feels jealous of his fianc?, Flora Miguel. Important symbols in this work include Bayardo's Model T, while important settings include Clothilde Armenta's milk shop, where a group of men obtain their implements of destruction from Faustino Santos. Although Colonel Lazaro Aponte could have prevented the title event, he decides to check on his dominoes game instead.  Focusing on the Vicario brothers' avenging their sister Angela by killing Santiago Nasar, this is, FTP, what Gabriel Garcia Marquez novella?	Chronicle of a Death Foretold or Cronica de un muerte anunciada	Chronicle_of_a_Death_Foretold	True
920	"His works for piano duet include the Scenes from a Ball of his Opus 109 and the Pictures from the East.  His lesser-known works for solo piano include the Songs of the Morning, the Multicolored Pages, and a set of etudes ""in the form of free variations"" on the Allegretto from Beethoven's Seventh Symphony.  Better known are his third piano sonata, an F minor work which he called a ""concerto without orchestra,"" and his Opus 13, the Symphonic Etudes.  His Opus 9 was a follow-up to his Papillons and ends with a march in which David puts the Philistines to flight.  FTP, name this composer of Carnaval and Kriesleriana who also wrote the Spring Symphony."	Robert Schumann	Piano_sonatas_(Beethoven)	False
921	"One of this man's collections of essays includes ""Mrs. Grundy at the Parkers'"" as well as papers on Gemistus Pletho, Cardan, and Howard Overing Sturgis.  His short story collectoin The Life to Come was published posthumously, while during his life he published a book of stories of the supernatural entitled The Eternal Moment.  After the publication of The Celestial Omnibus in 1911, he didn't publish anything for over a decade, though he wrote a guide to Alexandria during that period as well as the novel that would be published posthumously as Maurice.  FTP, name this English author of Where Angels Fear to Tread and A Room with a View."	Edward Morgan Forster	Angel	False
922	"This man's works have inspired Derek Walcott's The Isle is Full of Noises and Tom Paulin's The Riot Act.  He discussed the pain of having one's hair forcibly shorn in a play about the daughter of Salmoneus, Tyro Keiromene. The work Ichneutai, or The Tracking Satyrs, is a rare example of a satyr play by this tragedian. Anthony Hecht mentioned a girl who had read him in a good translation in his ""Dover Bitch,"" but he's better known for a work in which Eurydice kills herself after the deaths of her son and niece and another in which a Theban queen marries her own son.  FTP, name this Greek dramatist who wrote Antigone and Oedipus Rex."	Sophocles	Antigone	False
923	"Act II features one of the characters remembering his time in Morocco where he had to fend off a child prostitute, while Act IV begins with Dr. Baugh arriving to deliver some morphine and a woman coming to realize that her husband has terminal cancer. One of the central characters repeatedly asks for ""solid quiet"" and drinks until he hears a ""click"" in his head so that he can forget the death of his best friend, and possible lover, Skipper. Ultimately, the greedy and oddly fertile Mae and Gooper lose out as Big Daddy names the other Pollitt son as his heir. FTP, name this 1955 play that revolves around the doomed marriage of Brick and his wife Maggie, a work by Tennessee Williams."	Cat on a Hot Tin Roof	Cat_on_a_Hot_Tin_Roof	True
924	"His fragment ""Gabriel"" includes a soliloquy spoken to Guinevere that was influenced by Idylls to the King, though he would later call Tennyson ""unreal in motive.""  He wrote that ""some spirits start upwards at once and win their aureoles"" in a poem entitled ""Shakspere."" A poem which begins with the line ""I wake and feel the fell of dark, not day"" is grouped with others like ""No Worst, There is None"" and ""Carrion Comfort"" in the so-called ""terrible sonnets."" He describes the title locale as a ""towery city and branchy between towers"" in his ""Duns Scotus's Oxford."" Another of his poems describes the title creature as ""morning's minion"" and a ""dapple-dawn-drawn Falcon.""  FTP, name this poet of ""Pied Beauty"" and ""The Windhover."""	Gerard Manley Hopkins	Alfred,_Lord_Tennyson	False
925	"William Stanley Jevons used a comparison of libraries to racetracks to discredit this man's views in a series of four essays on this man's ""philosophy tested.""  Though this man never wrote a book on his views on psychology, he appended extensive notes to his father's Analysis of the Human Mind.  His only major work on metaphysics was an examination of the work of Scottish philosopher Sir William Hamilton.  John Hershel and William Whewell were important influences on his discussion of induction in his System of Logic, while another work, The Subjection of Women, was written in collaboration with Harriet Taylor.  FTP, name this philosopher who proposed the ""harm principle"" and wrote On Liberty."	John Stuart Mill	On_Liberty	False
926	"In his later work he distinguished between value that is invoked when an interpersonal exchange occurs and value as denoting the qualitative mental evaluation of elements. Using these definitions, he created an algebra of social exchange in his Sociological Studies. In his earlier work he argued that information processing is guided by a need for equilibrium, which is restored by either assimilating new information into old patterns, or altering the old pattern to accommodate the new information. Known for his belief in instinctual ""schemas"" of behavior at birth, he sought to understand the formation of knowledge in terms of ""genetic epistemology."" FTP, name this French developmental psychologist, best known for positing four stages of development beginning with the sensorimotor."	Jean Piaget	Knowledge	False
927	"The final movement of the fourth of them opens with a descending scale before the folk-song ""The Birch Tree"" is quoted, while the piece ends in the key of F major.  The popular fifth begins with a theme introduced by the clarinets, while the third movement is a waltz, unusual for this kind of composition.  The last of them is a B minor work which premiered less than a month before the composer's death.  The first three have nicknames, such as ""Winter Daydreams"" and ""Polish.""  FTP, name this group of six orchestral works by a Russian composer, the last of which is known as the ""Path?ique."""	the symphonies of Peter Ilitch Tchaikovsky (accept equivalents)	Waltz	False
928	Various legends descibe how the body of the losing commander slain at this battle was either displayed for two days at Leicester or merely pitched off a bridge into the River Soar, where it was later found and buried at the Greyfriars Monastery. Though the winning commander managed to gather forces numbering about five thousand during a march to Ambion Hill, he still faced an opponent more than three times as large.  This battle saw the death of the Duke of Norfolk as well as the losing commander. Helped in no small part by the treachery of the brothers Sir William and Thomas Lord Stanley, FTP, name this battle of 1485 in which Richard III was slain and Henry Tudor was crowned, ending the Wars of the Roses.	Bosworth Field	Battle_of_Bosworth_Field	True
929	The largest thermal lake in the world, Lake H??, is located in this country just west of Lake Balaton, one of the largest lakes in central Europe. The highest point is K?es, a mountain located in the Carpathians that run through the north along the Slovakian border. Major rivers include the Tisza, Dr?a, and the Danube which flows through the capital. FTP, what is this nation bordered by Ukraine, Austria, Slovakia, Romania, Slovenia, Serbia, and Croatia with capital at Budapest?	Republic of Hungary (or Magyar K?zt?sas?)	Danube	False
930	He advocated complete allegiance to the crown in his Passive Obedience, and suggested that slave-holding was good for Africans because it enabled them to become Christians in his A Proposal for the Better Supply of Churches. He was also a scientist, and expounded his theories in such works as A Defense of Free Thinking in Mathematics and The Analyst, though he is better known today as a philosopher.  He attacked the Earl of Shaftesbury in his Alcyphron or the Ten Minute Philosopher, while he explained medicinal values of tarwater in his Siris.  However, he is better known for works like Treatise Concerning the Principles of Human Knowledge. FTP, name this Irish clergyman and philosopher perhaps best known for his Three Dialogues Between Hylas and Philonus.	George Berkeley	George_Berkeley	True
931	"An essay on this man ""and the question of the subject"" appears in Paul Ricoeur's The Conflict of Interpretations.  In an essay published in Philosophy and Social Hope, Richard Rorty imagined an alternate universe in which this man married a woman named Sarah Mandelbaum and moved to America.  Rorty also discusses this man, Milan Kundera, and Charles Dickens in an essay which appears in his second collection of ""philosophical papers.""  Jacques Derrida wrote about this man's avoidance of a certain concept in his book Of Spirit.  In 1929 this man published Kant and the Problem of Metaphysics two years after his best-known work appeared.  FTP, name this German philosopher who never finished his treatise Being and Time."	Martin Heidegger	Jacques_Derrida	False
932	Proteins destined for this structure are tagged at their N-linked oligosaccharides by mannose-6-phosphate, which allow receptors to mediate vesicular transport of tagged proteins. Malfunction of this process is the cause of inclusion cell disease, while the lack of a critical enzyme inside this organelle leads to diseases such as Pompe's disease and Hurler syndrome. The lack of hexos-aminidase A causing buildup of gangliosides in this organelle is the cause of Tay-Sachs disease. Proton pumps and ion channels in this organelle maintain the pH of 4.8 that is critical for enzymatic function. Discovered in 1949 by Christian de Duve, FTP, name these organelles that destroy cellular waste and aid in the breakdown of macromolecules.	lysosomes	Tay–Sachs_disease	False
933	This author's The Broken Nest deals with a runaway boy who is adopted by a kindly tax collector and named as his heir, but runs away again just as he is about to marry the tax collector's daughter. His dramas include such works as The Waterfall and The Sacrifice. His most important novel focuses on Nikhil's attempts to deal with the religious violence in his homeland and is called The Home and the World. His own translations of Lalan Shah would inspire the poems collected in The Golden Boat, while his 1912 collection of 103 poems, translated as Song Offerings, featured an ecstatic preface by William Butler Yeats that would bring him fame.  FTP, identify this Bengali poet who wrote Gitanjali.	Rabindranath Tagore	Gitanjali	False
934	"He wrote about an eel and her son who are watching a fisherman when a piano falls into the sea and nearly crushes them in his story ""The Big Gravel-Sifter.""  After a play set in early Ireland, The Outlaw, gained attention, he received a stipend that allowed him to return to school.  He wrote about Arvid Falk in his first novel, Roda Rummet, while his other early works include a historical play about Olaus Petri, Master Olof.  The dramas Easter and A Dream Play appear in his Damascus trilogy, while his other plays include The Spook Sonata and The Father.  FTP, name this Swedish author of Miss Julie."	August Strindberg	Miss_Julie	False
935	This effect can be used to fit the observed Stokes profiles of CaH transitions in sunspots while Schadee's theory of its molecular form was used to explain Stokes profiles. The Mueller matrix for intermediate Hund's cases can be used to calculate the impact of this effect which occurs when Russell-Saunders decoupling causes projections of orbital angular momentum to behave as if spin approaches zero. The net effect is that the number of spectral lines is reduced to three closely spaced doublets in the anomalous Zeeman Effect.  FTP, what is this physical phenomenon in which atomic energy levels split in a strong magnetic field, which is named for its two German discoverers?	Paschen-Back effect	Stern–Gerlach_experiment	False
936	Recently scientists have used readings of over 1000 Gauss to reinterpret the heating mechanisms of this class of object. The Rossi Explorer captured a superburst of ash on the surface of one in 2004, while a pair of them with a 2.4-hour orbit was discovered by the CSIRO Parkes telescope. Their masses are upper-bounded by the Tolman-Oppenheimer-Volkoff limit. They undergo brief spin-up periods, or glitches, and their accretion of matter from a companion star can result in an equatorial bulge. A hot, rotating one was discovered by Giacconi in Centaurus and their release of gravitational binding energy powers supernovae. FTP, name these dense objects first postulated by Baade and Zwicky, whose rotating types are known as pulsars.	neutron star	Pulsar	False
937	It manifests when the two partial 3d bands of opposite spin are shifted by exchange interactions, but only when the band width is comparable to the displacement.  It is favored when the ratio of half the nuclear separation to the 3d radius is greater than 1.5, though Heusler alloys with manganese also exhibit this as an exception to the rule.  Found when the difference in energy between magnetized and unmagnetized states is near a 10th of an electron volt, it is characterized by domain structure and irreversibility upon magnetic field application known as the hysteresis effect.  FTP name this condition below the Curie point, the basis for permanent magnets like iron.	Ferromagnetism	Hysteresis	False
938	The wife of a man visited by this figure bakes seven loaves of bread to prove that this figure slept for seven days instead of staying awake.  Later, he obtains a very special herb but leaves it to be eaten by a snake.  Earlier, he had won a major victory in the Cedar Forest, though his triumph brought about the death of a friend of his who had been acculturated by a prostitute named Shamhat.  Because he killed both the Bull of Heaven and Humbaba, his friend had to die.  FTP, name this pal of Enkidu, a king of Uruk who figures in a Mesopotamian epic.	Gilgamesh	Epic_of_Gilgamesh	True
939	He developed the idea of Hebbian learning independently of Hebb and published his model of the brain in the 1952 work The Sensory Order. Around the same time he opposed excessive reductionism in social science in The Counter-Revolution of Science. He came to eschew explanations of business cycles based on changes in interest rates, and his 1939 book Profits, Interests, and Investments contrasts with earlier work in the Austrian vein like The Pure Theory of Capital. He distanced himself from some of his disciples in Why I am Not a Conservative, which was published as an appendix to The Constitution of Liberty. FTP, name this economist, who argued that collectivism leads to tyranny in The Road to Serfdom.	Friedrich Hayek	On_Liberty	False
940	"In one of his works, the blacksmith Vakula asks to marry Oksana after being whipped by Choub.  In addition to ""The Night Before Christmas,"" he wrote about the decision of Petro and Ivan to capture a pasha for King Stepan in ""The Terrible Vengeance.""  In a play by this man, Zhevakin and Omelet pursue the central female character, Agafya Tikhonovna.  In addition to Marriage, he wrote such stories as ""Viy"" and ""Old World Landowners,"" while he gained fame for a book introduced by the fictional beekeeper Rusty Panko, Evenings on a Farm near Dikanka.  Also the author of ""Nevsky Prospect"" and ""The Diary of a Madman,"" FTP, name this Russian author of ""The Nose"" and Dead Souls."	Nikolai Gogol	Ivan_the_Terrible	False
941	In three dimensions, one type of this phenomenon can be derived from applying two Lorentz transformations whose velocities point in opposite directions.  In general, that phenomenon accounts for the difference between a naive estimate and the true spin-orbit Hamiltonian.  Another type is utilized by NMR.  In classical mechanics, its period is defined as 4 pi-squared times an object's moment of inertia, all divided by its torque times the period about a certain axis, while planetary orbits may undergo apsidal or perihelion types.  Geometric, Thomas, and gyroscopic are also different types of, FTP, what phenomenon, the change in direction of an object's axis of gyration?	precession	Precession	True
942	"His early career included working as an army scout during the Battle of Monmouth and as the adjutant general to William Alexander, Lord Stirling. His treatise A View of the Conduct of the Executive defended his conduct as minister to France and viciously attacked Washington, who never forgave him. His diplomatic career continued as he assisted Robert Livingston in negotiating the Louisiana Purchase and argued against impressment in Britain. He supported the founding of the Liberia colony and was known as the ""Last-Cocked Hat"" for being the last of his generation to be President, but his best-known contribution was actually written by John Quincy Adams. FTP, name this man whose isolationist stance is now known as his ""Doctrine,"" the fifth President of the United States."	James Monroe	John_Quincy_Adams	False
943	In this engagement's fourth year, one of its central figures was replaced by the duque de Caxias and a key turning point was the destruction of a flotilla near Corrientes, at Riachuelo. After the fall of Humait? this conflict culminated with the Campaign of Lomas Valentinas in which the army assembled by Bartolom?Mitre forced Francisco Solano L?ez to run to the hills in the North, where he was killed in 1870. FTP, name this 1864-1870 conflict, the bloodiest in the history of South America; a war fought between Paraguay and the namesake entity consisting of Argentina, Brazil, and Uruguay.	the War of the Triple Alliance	Paraguayan_War	False
944	"Donatello's 1415 marble of this person with a forked beard and book is in the Duomo while El Greco's unorthodox depiction of him with a bear-skin and cross has a lamb at lower-right. Masaccio depicts him with St. Jerome on the Colonna Altarpiece and shows his death alongside that of St. Peter on the Pisa Altar. Rodin depicts him ""Preaching"" and the Ansidei Altarpiece includes Nicholas of Bari and this man. Ghirlandaio relates his life in Santa Maria Novella. Michelangelo's The Holy Family with this person is also known as the Doni tondo; he is also depicted as an infant in the Madonna of the Rocks. FTP, name this Saint often depicted in art performing his most famous function: baptizing Jesus Christ."	St. John the Baptist (prompt on St. John)	Isenheim_Altarpiece	False
945	His characters include Formosante, who searches for her lover in The Princess of Babylon, and the Scythian Babouc, who sees the fall of Persepolis in The World as it Is. His poetic works include The Wordly One, an apologia about the author's love of physical comforts; Epistle to Urania, which rejects Christian orthodoxy; and An Essay on Epic Poetry, which was written in English to promote his epic, The Henriad. One of his plays centers on a queen of Messina who marries Polyphonte, Merope, while, in his most popular tragedy, the sultan Orosman kills the title slave girl, Zaire. FTP, name this prolific author whose most famous tale follows the adventures of Cacambo, Cunegonde, and Pangloss and is called Candide.	Voltaire (or Jean Francois Marie Arouet)	Candide	False
946	The first atomic structure of one of these was published by Ban et al. in 2000. Its leading end is labeled P and is followed by A. In prokaryotes, it is made of three strands and consists of 30S and 50S subunits; in eukaryotes it has four strands. It uses an initiator called fMET and then works by using peptidyl transferase to bind two amino acids, creating a peptide bond; it does this by reading mRNA and using tRNA to create its product. FTP, these, sometimes located within the mitochondria or in the cytoplasm, are, what protein-assembling organelles, most commonly located on the rough endoplasmic reticulum?	"ribosomes (accept 50S ribosomal subunits or large ribosomal subunits until ""strands"")"	Endoplasmic_reticulum	False
947	"In 1816, this man composed his first paid work, a cantata for the students of a Professor Watteroth entitled ""Prometheus."" Other works around that time include his libretto for the founder of the schoolmasters' widows' fund and an opera, Die Burgschaft. Due to the inept writing of men such as Georg von Hoffman, Josef Kupelweiser, and Franz von Schober, operas such as Alfonso and Estrella and Fierrbras were poorly received. Other works include a famous sonata for piano and arpeggione as well as an Ave Maria that was based on a poem by Sir Walter Scott. He is best known, however, for his Grand Duo Piano Sonata in C Major as well as songs like ""The Doppelganger"" and ""Die Schone Mullerin."" FTP, identify this German Romantic composer of Die Winterreise and the Trout Quintet."	Franz Schubert	Piano_sonata	False
948	"In the Merseburg Incantations, this character is also referred to as Phol and is aided by his family when his mount sprains its foot. The Gylfaginning claims that ""none may gainsay his judgments"" while Saxo Grammaticus held him to be a historical rival of Hotherus in the Gesta Danorum. Due to the treachery of Thokk, and despite the use of Hringhorni, the largest ship in the world, Hermod failed in his mission to retrieve this god. However, the Voluspa foretells his resurrection following Ragnarok. FTP, identify this son of Frigg mistakenly killed by his brother Hoder's mistletoe arrow; the Norse god of beauty."	Balder or Baldur (accept Phol before it's mentioned)	Frigg	False
949	This location's deposits of KREEP basalts are thought to date from the Pre-Nectarian period, and it has the largest known minable deposits of the advanced fusion fuel helium-three. Low volatile abundances provide evidence against George Darwin's of its formation, but oxygen isotope ratios argue against gravitational capture, so this body may have formed during an encounter involving a Mars-sized impactor after terrestrial core-formation. Its tidal locking has led to a thicker crust on one side, explaining the uneven distribution of smooth basalt plains with relatively little cratering, known as maria [MAH-ree-uh]. FTP, name this natural satellite of the Earth.	Moon (or Luna)	Helium	False
950	This technique may be used to find Fermi resonances in acid chlorides. Preparation of compounds for use in this technique may involve making a mull in nujol, mixing with potassium bromide, or depositing a thin film on a sodium chloride cell. A molecular dipole moment shift is required for a vibration to be visible using this technique. Hydrogen bonding lowers the frequency of the hydroxyl group stretch, and vibrations between four hundred and one thousand, six hundred wavenumbers are considered the fingerprint region for organic compounds studied using this method. FTP, identify this type of spectroscopy useful in identifying functional groups whose vibrations are excited by wavelengths of light that are longer than visible light.	infrared spectroscopy	Infrared_spectroscopy	True
951	In his early life he was influenced by the theosophism of his tutor, Ferdinand Brooks. During World War II, the envoys Lord Wavell and Stafford Cripps failed to reconcile his party with the rival party, founded by Aga Khan III. In his most important post, he put through the Community Development Program and the 1951 five-year plan, going against the conservative politics of his father, Motilal. Although under the influence of his minister Menon he was a leader of the non-aligned movement, he called for western aid when China encroached upon the Brahmaputra River. FTP name this continuing leader of the Congress Party despite the protests of Sardar Patel and Gandhi, the grandfather of Sanjay and father of Indira Gandhi and first prime minister of independent India.	Jawaharlal Nehru	Indira_Gandhi	False
952	"In one of his poems, this author claimed to ""crave the stain / Of tears"" and the ""sweet of bitter bark / And burning clove"" before concluding that he longs ""to feel the earth as rough / To all my length."" In another poem, he claimed to have ""looked down the saddest city lane"" and to have seen a ""luminary clock against the sky"" which ""proclaimed the time was neither wrong nor right."" In addition to ""To Earthward"" and ""Acquainted with the Night,"" he wrote about a ""dimpled spider"" holding up a moth in his sonnet ""Design"" and about a ""broken drinking goblet"" hidden ""so the wrong ones can't find it"" in the poem ""Directive."" FTP, name this American poet of ""The Gift Outright"" and ""The Road Not Taken."""	Robert Frost	Sonnet	False
953	"In a poem drawn from a maiden's song from St. Winfred's Well, he contrasted ""The Leaden Echo"" with ""The Golden Echo"" and he claimed that ""Christ plays in ten thousand places... To the Father through the features of men's faces"" in ""As Kingfishers Catch Fire, Dragonflies Draw Flame."" The poet reacts to the death from tuberculosis of his blacksmith friend in ""Felix Randal,"" published posthumously in 1918 by poet laureate Robert Bridges. Other poems include a ""curtal"" sonnet in which he cries ""Glory be to God for dappled things"" and another dedicated to the ""happy memory of five Franciscan nuns,"" but best known is a poem about the ""kingdom of daylight's dauphin, dapple-dawn-drawn falcon."" FTP, name this poet of ""The Wreck of the Deutschland"" and ""The Windhover."""	Gerard Manley Hopkins	Gerard_Manley_Hopkins	True
954	"The second part opens with a woman on ""a burnished throne"" and ends with another woman at a bar telling her friend Lil about her decision to sleep with Albert. In this work, the Moon shines on Mrs. Porter and her daughter who wash their feet in soda water, a moment that is followed by a memory of Tereus raping Philomela. The middle section features Tiresias lamenting his man breasts and the final fragment features a cock standing on a rooftree calling out ""Co co rico,"" which brings a flash of lightning and then, rain. That part, ""What the Thunder Said,"" concludes with the repetition of the word ""Shantih."" FTP, identify this work full of footnotes; a modernist poem dedicated to Ezra Pound and written by T.S. Eliot."	"""The Waste Land"""	Tiresias	False
955	"Green, red, yellow, white, and blue make-up the symbolic star of this faith; these colors represent the five ministers that govern it. Members in Syria are known as Jabal and believe in the divine unity of humanity and reincarnation. A namesake revolt in 1925 resulted in the exile of its leaders to Palmyra, although this was ended two years later. Knowledge of the Kitab-al-hikma is restricted to those who have made the passage from juhhal to uqqal, from ""ignorant"" or ""knower."" It is likely that the object of their worship is the former Fatimid caliph al-Hakim. FTP, name this highly secretive sect of Islam which derives its name from that of a forerunner of the community, Muhammad al-Durazi."	Druze (accept Jabal before it's mentioned)	Muhammad	False
956	The factor of one-half resulting from this effect cancels with the factor of two error in the naive gyromagnetic ratio, so that a semi-classical calculation of spin-orbit coupling coincidentally yields the same results as the full relativistic one. It occurs in general because, over an accelerating path, the orientation of the velocity varies harmonically relative to that in an inertial frame. Because Lorentz boosts do not commute with rotations, there exists a time dilation between the frame of an orbiting charge and that of a nucleus, so the electron undergoes this motion as it orbits. FTP, name this type of purely relativistic precession most notably undergone by atomic electrons and named for an English physicist.	Thomas precession	Electron	False
957	The RACE type of this process is a special case of the anchored type, which utilizes a universal linker. The hot-start version separates the components before the first step and the touch-down version decreases hybridization temperatures over time. The ARMS system utilizes the allele-specific type, which relies on single nucleotide distinctions near the three-prime end. Its product usually has an adenosine three-prime overhang and enzymes from Pyrococcus furiosus have been used in it thanks to their three prime to five prime exonuclease proofreading, but VENT and taq pol are also common. FTP, name this technique taking about thirty cycles; a DNA amplification method invented by Kary Mullis.	polymerase chain reaction	Prime_Numbers	False
958	Brodsky and Berman determined this chemical's structure, which includes a sheath of stabilizing ordered water molecules. Due its dearth of cysteine residues, cross-linking of occurs near the N- and C-termini between lysine and histidine residues with the aid of lysyl oxidase. Ascorbate is dietarily necessary because it is needed by the enzyme prolyl hydroxylase, which forms one of this molecule's prevalent residues. Consisting of over thirty distinct chains assembled into at least nineteen different varieties, the most common residue sequence is glycine-proline-hydroxyproline. FTP, name this triple-helical protein, the most abundant in vertebrates, that provides tensile strength in tissues like tendon, teeth, and bone.	collagen	Glycine	False
959	Sometimes replaced by a violin in Glinka's Trio Pathetique, it was invented in the 1710's by Johann Christoph Denner and only became a staple of orchestras in the 1780's. Weber and Copland wrote concertos for it but the most famous is Mozart's in A major, which was his last major instrumental work. He and Brahms also wrote famous quintets for strings and this wind instrument, whose virtuosi include Gervase de Payer, David Shifrin and Sabine Meyer. FTP, Elaine's Bar on New York's Upper East Side is where you go to hear Woody Allen play what wind instrument tuned in B-flat and played with a single reed, whose famous jazz artists have included Woody Herman, Artie Shaw and Benny Goodman.	clarinet	Benny_Goodman	False
960	"Kearns-Sayre syndrome is caused by faults in this, and its normal direction of heritance, which is caused by ubiquitination of it, can be reversed in certain species of Musa. Analysis of this commonly consists of sequencing of HVR regions and was used to establish woolly mammoth descent as described in a December, 2005 Nature article. Its existence strongly supports the endosymbiotic hypothesis with respect to its namesake organelle. In humans, it contains 37 known genes, most coding for tRNA's. FTP, name this genetic material generally inherited only for the mother; a ribonucleic acid present in the ""power plant"" of cells."	mitochondrial deoxyribonucleic acid (prompt on deoxyribonucleic acid, mitochondria or mitochondrion)	Transfer_RNA	False
961	His mother, Mandane, was a princess and a famous inscription of his notes that his great-grandfather was Teipses and his father was a king of Anshan. He defeated rulers, such as Amasis II of Egypt, Nabonidus and Croesus of Lydia, but he died while fighting against the Massagetae. He defeated his grandfather, Astyages, and built his capital, Pasargadae at the site of that battle and he later attacked his father-in-law and captured Ecbatana. Believed to be the ideal king by Xenophon, his Stele tells how he captured Babylon without a battle and, according to the Bible, Daniel presented him with an ancient scroll of Isaiah on his entrance into Babylon. FTP, identify this son of Cambyses I and first king of the Medo-Persian empire.	Cyrus II, the Great (or accept either underlined part after Cyrus so long as it's proceeded by Cyrus)	Babylon	False
962	This relation's namesake constant must generally be computed for each streamline because it is derived by line-integrating the momentum equation along a streamline with the proper assumptions, the most restrictive of which is the absence of friction. Dividing through by the acceleration of gravity reformulates this equation in terms of head, which is how it's commonly used in civil engineering, and it can be used to derive the Venturi principle. It can be quickly obtained by dividing the energy equation for an ideal fluid element by its volume. FTP, name the equation that states that the sum of static and dynamic pressures and specific gravitational potential is constant and is named after a Swiss physicist.	Bernoulli's equation	Bernoulli's_principle	False
963	"He left Rome after losing his first case as prosecutor against the notable defense attorney Quintus Hortensius, leading to the acquittal of Gnaeus Cornellius Dolabella. He then sailed to Rhodes to study rhetoric under Molon, but he was captured by privateers. After being ransomed, he gathered a private army and crucified the entire band of pirates. Suetonius records that in this man's first consulship, ""he stole three thousand pounds of gold from the Capitol, replacing it with the same weight of gilded bronze,"" and that Bibulus attacked him for an alleged homosexual relationship with Nicomedes IV, labeling him the ""Queen of Bithynia."" He hosted the Lucca conference in his assigned sphere of Cisalpine Gaul to avoid a civil war, but those efforts proved unsuccessful, and this hero of the Gallic Wars met disaster on the steps of the Curia. FTP, name this victim of Cassius and Brutus's conspiracy on the Ides of March."	Gaius Julius Caesar	Cecil_Rhodes	False
964	"This man's doctorate work examined The Family Among the Australian Aborigines, the success of which granted him the chance to study The Natives of Mailu. His second wife, Valetta Swann, aided his later studies in the Oaxaca Valley of Mexico, and was primarily responsible for the publication of his posthumous A Scientific Theory of Culture. His most famous work features chapters on ""The Power of Words in Magic"" and ""Canoes and Sailing,"" but it is mostly concerned with the Kula exchange of the Trobriand Islanders. Also the author of the Introduction to Facing Mount Kenya, FTP name this functionalist anthropologist most famous for Argonauts of the Western Pacific."	Bronislaw Malinowski	Kenya	False
965	"This man compared Goethe and James Watt in a chapter entitled ""The Individual Versus the Citizen,"" which can be found in his work Education and the Social Order. He asserted that more than one thing can be known from one experience and that the mind can attain negative knowledge through perception in his An Inquiry into Meaning and Truth. He described Vladimir Lenin as having ""no love of liberty"" after a trip to the USSR, which resulted in Theory and Practice of Bolshevism, and his other works include A History of Western Philosophy and Why I Am Not a Christian. His namesake paradox showed that some axioms used by Gottlob Frege were inconsistent, and stated that ""the set of all sets must contain itself."" FTP, name this British philosopher who co-authored Principia Mathematica with Alfred Whitehead."	Bertrand Russell	Gottlob_Frege	False
966	One character in this work is enthralled by Volney's Ruins of Empires, which he hears Felix read to Safie. The protagonist of this work gazes upon the portrait of his mother as Caroline Beaufort kneeling by her father's coffin, having come home to witness the trial of a woman who had been arrested for the murder of his brother after a locket was discovered in her coat. As a student he studies under M. Krempe and M. Waldman, who rid him of his fascination with Cornelius Agrippa and Albertus Magnus. After the title character flees from the Orkneys to Ireland the antagonist kills his closest friend, Henry Clerval. His nemesis then goes on to kill the title character's wife, Elizabeth Lavenza, on their wedding night before fleeing to the polar regions. For ten points, name this novel about a doctor and his monstrous creation, a work of Mary Shelley?	Frankenstein	Percy_Bysshe_Shelley	False
967	"One of this man's plays concerns the daughter of the innkeeper Peter Sabouroff along with the subtitular characters, which include Peter, Alexis, and Professor Marfa. ""The Birthday of the Infanta"" and ""The Fisherman and his Soul"" are among the children's stories collected in A House of Pomegranates. In a poem he writes that ""A year ago I breathed the Italian air"" and praises the titular city, while a spirit waits for Cuffy Williams to perform a brave deed in ""The Canterville Ghost."" Mrs. Arbuthnot debates whether to tell Gerald that Lord Illingworth is his father in this man's A Woman of No Importance, and in his best-known poem he writes that ""all men kill the thing they love,"" the coward with a kiss and the brave man with a sword. Also known for Lady Windemere's Fan, this is, FTP, what dandy author of The Picture of Dorian Grey and The Importance of Being Earnest?"	Oscar Fingal O'Flahertie Wills Wilde	The_Picture_of_Dorian_Gray	False
968	"Unlike its partner, it does not change sign under spatial reflection, though it does change sign under time reflection, and its boundary conditions stipulate that its normal component must be continuous across a boundary between media. The great strength of this property for a neutron star results in the formation of two ""hot sports"" on its surface and is responsible for the short timescale of a neutron star's rotational damping. A spin will precess around an applied one, and an equation which states that it is divergence-free indicates that classically, its monopoles do not exist. FTP identify this physical quantity whose behavior is governed by such equations as Ampere's law, the dual of the electric field."	magnetic field	Neutron_star	False
969	Born in Naples, he traveled with his father to Rome at the age of seven, and eventually caught the eye of Pope Paul V, whom he immortalized in a 1620 bust. Many of the sculptures his workshop created don't survive today, because they were made from marzipan and eaten at papal feasts. His lesser known surviving works include an Apollo and Daphne, featuring Daphne in the moment of metamorphosis, and a fully clothed David in motion. FTP, name this famous Baroque Italian architect, known today for his fountains, and Ecstasy of St Theresa.	Gian Lorenzo Bernini	Maria_Theresa	False
970	This man discovered the erotic memoirs of a French hermaphrodite who committed suicide named Herculine Barbin. One of his works discusses discursive formations, and another explores the writings of Raymond Roussel. The argument of his doctoral thesis was undermined by research showing that confinement of the insane spiked only in the 19th century, and that work criticized the country retreat of Samuel Tuke as brutal. The Panopticon was the focus of his most famous work, which was written after The Order of Things and Birth of the Clinic. FTP, name this French philosopher, the author of Madness and Civilization and Discipline and Punish.	Michel Foucault	Suicide	False
971	"This author wrote about espionage in a short story in which Moldweorp turns against Porpentine, who is subsequently killed. That short story, ""Under the Rose,"", appears with ""The Secret Integration"" and ""Mortality and Mercy in Vienna"" in his collection Slow Learner. Last decade, he published a novel in which Prairie searches for her mother Frenesi, who had left her husband Zoyd Wheeler, while another is narrated by Reverend Wicks Cherrycoke. Those works, Vineland and Mason & Dixon were published after his most famous, in which the sexual encounters of Tyrone Slothrop precede V-2 rocket hits. FTP, name this reclusive American author of V., The Crying of Lot 49, and Gravity's Rainbow."	Thomas Pynchon	Gravity's_Rainbow	False
972	"Josef Lenart was indicted in 1995 for a role in undermining this initiative, whose mediation was discussed decades earlier at the Ciern?nad-Tisou conference. Some of its participants went on to found Charter 77, while others outlined its goals in the Action Program and the Literary Gazette's Two Thousand Words article. Its economic dimension was inspired by the ""third way"" of Ota Sik, who advocated ""socialism with a human face."" In its wake, the period of ""normalization"" began, Gustav Hasak rose to power, and the Brezhnev Doctrine was elucidated. FTP, Oldrich Cernik, Frantisek Tomasek, and Alexander Dubeck led what 1968 attempt at Czechoslovakian autonomy from the Warsaw Pact, which was ended by Soviet military intervention?"	Prague Spring	Leonid_Brezhnev	False
973	Depictions of this god with two hands are considered taboo, and he is generally shown with four. One of his hands is often turned toward the viewer in a gesture of blessing, while the others hold a whip, an axe, and a lotus flower, respectively. He is the lord of good fortune and the destroyer of obstacles, and his ample belly contains infinite universes. The first son of Shiva and Parvati, he is often seen riding on a mouse. He is always shown with a single intact tusk, representing his ability to overcome dualism. FTP, name this Hindu elephant god, the master of intellect and wisdom.	Ganesha (accept Ganesa, Ganesh, or Ganapati)	Shiva	False
974	At the age of 28, he solved the famous Basel problem, and he discovered the law of quadratic reciprocity. His contributions to number theory include the invention of the totient function, which gives the number of positive integers less than and coprime to a positive integer n. He developed analytic number theory, where he developed the theory of hyperbolic functions, and he is also considered the father of graph theory with the solving of the famous K?nigsberg Bridge problem. FTP, name this most prolific mathematician in history, whose famous namesake formula connects complex numbers and trigonometry, and who was the namesake for the symbol of the natural log base.	Leonhard Euler	Integer	False
975	"He worked for Bruno Paul starting at the age of 19, and he also spent four years working in Peter Behrens' studio, but he never received any formal training in the field he is most commonly identified with. He was Director of Architecture at the Illinois Institute of Technology for twenty years, and during that tenure he designed the nearby Farnsworth House, which provoked controversy, but he is better known for collaborating with Philip Johnson on the Seagram Building. FTP, name this architect, the last director of the Bauhaus School and the originator of the term ""less is more."""	Ludwig Mies van der Rohe	Ludwig_Mies_van_der_Rohe	True
976	"A woman obsesses over the newspapers used to wrap the baby born on her nursery floor in one of his stories, another of which takes place primarily at the After the Show Retreat.  In addition to ""Swaddling Clothes"" and ""After the Banquet"" his stories include ""Death in Midsummer"" and one about the suicide of an army lieutenant and his wife.  He also wrote dramas such as Twilight Sunflower and The Damask Drum, but better known are novels like The Sound of Waves, which followed Forbidden Colors and a novel about the conflicted student Kochan.  Other characters created by this author include the priest Mizoguchi and Honda, the protagonist of his most famous tetralogy.  FTP name this author of The Temple of the Golden Pavilion and The Sea of Fertility who committed seppuku on public television."	Yukio Mishima	The_Temple_of_the_Golden_Pavilion	False
977	He was inspired by Ludvig Lindeman to create four Symphonic Dances and one of his frequent walking expeditions led to the cycle The Mountain Maid. His other works include Lyric Pieces and The Holberg Suite, and his only concerto completed was the Piano Concerto in A minor, which was similar in style to Robert Schumann's. His most famous work contains Anitra's Dance and The Hall of the Mountain King. FTP, name this Norwegian composer of Peer Gynt.	Edvard Grieg	Peer_Gynt	False
978	This quantity can be defined as the derivative of internal energy with respect to volume at constant entropy.  It can be measured by Kiel probes, and structures sensitive to it in the body include Ruffini endings and Pascinian Corpuscles.  The radiation variety is calculated as one over c times the energy flux, and it was recently found that the absolute form of this quantity can be negative, explaining transpirational pull.  Gay-Lussac's Law says that, at constant volume, it is directly proportional to temperature, and Boyle's Law deals with its relation to volume.  FTP name this state function often measured in Pascals, defined as force per unit area.	Pressure	Boyle's_law	False
979	"With Albert Hunold, this man co-founded the Mount Pelerin Society, which was dedicated to the preservation of free societies.  His Abuse of Reason project criticized social scientists' misuse of natural science principles, a practice he called ""scientism.""  He wrote a critical review of Keyenes's A Treatise on Money, and Keynes returned the favor for this man's Prices and Production.  His trade cycle theory was popular during the Great Depression, but he is most famous for a work in which he argues that socialist ideals lead to tyrrany, and that Nazi Germany and the USSR were on the titular journey.  FTP, name this Austrian who shared the 1974 Nobel Prize in Economics with Gunnar Myrdal, the author of The Road to Serfdom."	Friedrich August von Hayek	John_Maynard_Keynes	False
980	"At the age of twenty-three, he wrote a biography in the form of a letter to a physician, explaining why he turned to scholarship. In a biography that came after A Kind of History of My Life, he described the initial success of his Political Discourses. Also in that later biography, My Own Life, this thinker mentions a trip to France, where he wrote a three-part work that did not receive the approval of Joseph Butler. His ideas were criticized in Essays on the Intellectual Powers of Man, written by Thomas Reid. His most famous work, which attacked the self-love theory, contained sections including ""Of the Reason of Animals"" and ""Of Miracles,"" and awoke Kant from his ""dogmatic slumber."" FTP, name this Scottish philosopher and author of An Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding."	David Hume	Immanuel_Kant	False
981	This process was first observed by Jan Ingenhousz in 1785.  It corresponds to a Fokker-Planck Equation with no deterministic term and constant stochastic term, and it is generally modeled as a Wiener Process, while the Langevin formula can govern the average displacement.  It is formally equivalent to the macro-scale diffusion equation with constant diffusion coefficient, and its namesake first observed it occurring for a pollen particle in water. Described by Einstein using the kinetic theory of gas, FTP name this seemingly random motion of a particle in a fluid, the namesake of a Scottish biologist.	Brownian Motion	Diffusion	False
982	In one work by this man the title characters assault a man with checkered dish towels and clowns' slapsticks, while another play features Betty, Yetta, and Henry trapped in a house due to the title weather phenomenon.  A German teacher is being treated for prognathism by an unnamed dentist in his novel Local Anesthetic, which was followed by From the Diary of a Snail.  The title character of another novel allows himself to be caught by nine fishing feminists whom he helps to wrest control of the world from men, while another title character is given as a pet to the narrator as a Christmas gift and appears in his eschatological dreams.  In addition to The Flounder and The Rat this author is known for a trilogy that begins with the story of the dwarf Oskar Mazerath.  FTP name this author of Cat and Mouse and The Tin Drum.	Gunther Wilhelm {Grass}	The_Tin_Drum	False
983	As a child the protagonist of this novel plays with Shelby and Eleanor, who call her Alphabet.  She complains about her first husband's big belly, mule-foot toenails, and aversion to washing his feet before bed.  Tony and Coker help build her second husband's store, where she works with her hair covered by a kerchief.  While there after that man dies she meets a man who entertains her with his guitar and checker games, with whom she eventually goes on de muck picking beans.  However, a rabid dog bites him in the face and she shoots him in self-defense, after which the protagonist returns to Eatonville.  FTP name this novel about Janie Crawford by Zora Neale Hurston.	Their Eyes Were Watching God	Their_Eyes_Were_Watching_God	True
984	"In one story by this man Nancy is the shallow wife of the schoolmaster Michael, whose attempt to close a footpath gets him fired. He wrote children's stories like ""The Flute"" and ""The Drum,"" while adult short story collections include The Sacrificial Egg and Girls at War. He began writing novels as a response to Joyce Cary's Mister Johnson, an effort which produced characters like an army officer known as ""Destroyer of Guns,"" Captain T.K. Winterbottom, and John Goodcountry, who advocates the killing of Pythons. That novel concerns a priest who refuses to declare the New Yam Festival, Ezeulu. Other works include a novel about the populist Chief Nanga, A Man of the People, and two novels concerning Obi and his father, Okonkwo. FTP name this author of No Longer at Ease and Things Fall Apart."	Chinua Achebe	Things_Fall_Apart	False
985	This equation's modern form was first published by Lagrange in his Analytical Mechanics, and it provides one possible explanation of the Kutta-Joukowski Theorem. The derivation of the general form relies on a conservative body force and zero volumetric energy supply, while the more limiting version can be derived by directly integrating Euler's equation. It has notably been used to study the Venturi effect, whose limiting case is called choked flow, and Pitot tubes use it to calculate velocity. Under steady flow with incompressible fluids, the conservation of energy leads to its formulation that the sum of kinetic energy density, potential energy density, and pressure is a constant along a streamline. FTP identify this equation named for a member of a prominent Swiss scientific family, invoked to explain the lift on airplanes.	Bernoulli's equation or principle	Bernoulli's_principle	False
986	The title character in this work once punched a man for joking about his walrus-like physique. A son of that character wants to ask Bill Oliver for a loan to buy a ranch, but is concerned about a past experience involving the theft of a carton of basketballs. Frank's Chop House is the setting for an argument about a character failing math. Earlier, the title character brags about the legendary Dave Singleman, but gets fired anyway by Howard Wagner. This work ends with a Requiem, in which Charley, Bernard, Linda, Biff, and Happy are the only people to attend the title character's funeral. FTP, name this drama about Willy Loman, written by Arthur Miller.	Death of a Salesman	Death_of_a_Salesman	True
987	"In one of his nonfiction works, he discusses a misheard threat which caused him to believe that a certain Mrs. Form periodically visited his primary school to beat the chidren. The author of the poetry collection Mice throws the unfinished manuscript of London Pleasures into the sewer one of his novels, and he wrote another novel about George ""Fatty"" Bowling's reminiscences about Little Binfield. In addition to Keep the Aspidistra Flying and Coming Up For Air, he wrote ""England your England, ""Shopkeepers at War,"" and ""The English Revolution,"" which together comprise the title essay of his collection The Lion and the Unicorn, while other notable nonfiction includes an essay in which the narrator is hesitant to fire his gun at the title animal and the autobiographical Down and Out in Paris and London. Better known are a novel in which the residents of the title place sing ""Beasts of England"" and another about a rat-fearing citizen of Oceania. FTP name this author of Animal Farm and 1984."	George Orwell	England	False
988	This anthropologist wrote about the differing sex roles among the Arapesh, Mudugumor, and Tchambuli cultures in Sex and Temperament in Three Primitive Societies, and this author wrote that children growing up in an animistic culture only begin to think that way as they age in Growing Up in New Guinea. The most famous work by this researcher was a study of Manu adolescent girls in relation to American girls, which has often been criticized as being fake, notably by Derek Freeman. FTP name this American cultural anthropologist and author of Coming of Age in Samoa.	Margaret Mead	Coming_of_Age_in_Samoa	False
989	"The protagonist of this story tries to avoid an old man from Pola whose dentures fall out of place as he shouts ""Our very best to your sweetheart!"" That old man resembles other characters, including a street entertainer and a man seen in the doorway of a mortuary chapel in Munich. The protagonist, the author of ""The Wretched Man"" and a prose epic about Frederick the Great, loses his luggage after arriving at the Hotel des Bains on Lido. The sweetish smell of disinfectant haunts him, and he becomes ill by eating some overripe strawberries. Finally, he is summoned to his fate by Tadzio, the Polish boy with whom he has fallen in love. FTP, name this Thomas Mann short story centering on Gustav von Aschenbach and his demise in an Italian city."	"""Death in Venice"" or ""Der Tod in Venedig"""	Death_in_Venice	True
990	"The people of Nauru believed it was formed from the smaller snail found by Areop Enap, and the Maori named it Marama. In Hawaii, it is represented by Kega and Uri, the two aspects of Hina. It is represented by Ilazki, whose name means ""light of the dead"", in the Basque pantheon, while Ix Chel and Ix Ch'up are the two aspects of the goddess of this entity in Mayan mythology. Called Mani by the Norse, it is rather mischievous, having stolen the children Hjuki and Bil. The Sumerian Nanna and his Akkadian counterpart Sin, the Shinto Tsuki-Yomi, the Greek Selene, and the Roman Luna are all deities of, FTP, which celestial body?"	moon	Basques	False
991	It used such devices as the Tohopesate, a military pact, and the Verhansung, a final exclusion of recalcitrant members, to enforce its interests. Albrecht of Mecklenburg attempted to destroy it by hiring Klaus St?rtebeker's pirates, the Vitalienbr?der, to war against this organization. Another war, with England, lasted from 1468 to 1474, a century after it signed the Treaty of Straslund which ended its war with Denmark. Founded by Henry the Lion, it declined after expelling Cologne and Brunswick in the fifteenth century, and only Hamburg, Bremen, and L?beck remained as members by 1669. FTP, name this Baltic trade confederation.	Hanseatic League [or Hansa]	Baltic_Sea	False
992	"He writes that ""For God, our God is a gallant foe that playeth behind the veil"" in a poem in which he also claims, ""For I am made as a naked blade.""  He calls out to ""Gods of the Winged Shoe"" in another poem, and in a dramatic monologue by this man Bertram de Born calls out ""Hell blot black for always the thought 'Peace!'"" from his castle at Altaforte.  In a long poem he describes a character who is ""Bent resolutely on wringing lilies from the acorn"" and he published a heavily embellished translation of books two and three of the ""elegies"" of Sextus Propertius.  Other notable translations include Sophocles' Women of Trachs and Li Po's ""The River-Merchant's Wife,"" and he was the editor of the vorticist publication Blast.  Also the author of Hugh Selwyn Mauberley, this is FTP what expatriate author of The Cantos?"	Ezra Pound	Elegy_Written_in_a_Country_Churchyard	False
993	In the one-dimensional equation for the radial wave function, the term for this quantity is equivalent to a repulsive potential.  None of the individual components of its operator commute with each other, but its operator does commute with the Hamiltonian of it.  A consequence of the conservation of this quantity is that a radius vector drawn from the sun to any planet seeps out equal areas in equal time intervals, and Bohr proposed the quantization of it in units of Planck's constant divided by 2 pi.  In classical mechanics, the derivative of this quantity with respect to time is the net torque.  FTP name this conserved rotational quantity defined as the cross product of position and its corresponding linear quantity, symbolized L.	angular momentum	Torque	False
994	"This man based his cantata ""Aeolus Propitiated"" on a work by Nicholas Harmoncourt, and he wrote only three oratorios, the Easter, Christmas, and Ascension.  He later returned to mythological themes with a cantata featuring the son of Alcmene ""at the crossroads.""  String works include six suites for solo cello and the sonatas and partitas for solo violin, but better known are a set of 10 ""puzzle canons"" on a royal theme, ""A Musical Offering,"" and six concertos written for the margrave of their titular state.  FTP name this prolific contrapuntal composer of The Art of Fugue and the Brandenburg Concertos."	Johann Sebastian Bach	Cello	False
995	Their occurrence is partially explained by the Frohlich model, and Matthias noticed that none of them are lanthanides or actinides and related a high transition temperature in them to an odd number of valence electrons.  Tuyn's law relates their threshold temperature to the critical strength of their external magnetic field, and a type one material's transition into one of these includes an exclusion of magnetic fields known as the Meissner effect.  In one prominent theory, their existence is explained by electrons condensing near the Fermi level into boson-like Cooper pairs. FTP name this class of materials described by the BCS theory, characterized by zero electrical resistance.	superconductor	Superconductivity	False
996	The protagonist of this novel ridicules an engraving of Goethe he sees on the wall of an old colleague's home after they defame an anti-war column he had written.  After leaving he meets a girl who mocks his love of Mozart due to his inability to dance and subsequently takes him to a tavern, where he meets then sleeps with Maria.  He also meets the saxophonist Pablo, who, in a dream at the novel's end, pockets the shrunken corpse of Hermine.  The novel begins with the protagonist in the aunt's boarding house, and after he vacates her stepson finds his memoir.  Through it he finds out that the protagonist gave himself the title appellation after patronizing a magic show only for madmen, which awakened in him his animal instincts.  FTP name this novel about Harry Haller by Hermann Hesse.	Steppenwolf	Steppenwolf_(novel)	True
997	This architect was inspired by the nearby Rocky Mountains to create a very large, rugged, concrete home for The National Center for Atmospheric Research.  After previously designing the Johnson Museum of Art at Cornell and the Everson Museum of Art in Syracuse, he placed a large Alexander Calder mobile in the middle of his wedge-shaped East Wing of the National Gallery.  He has several notable buildings in Boston, including the Christian Science Center, JFK Presidential Library, and Hancock Place.  Renowned for his use of glass walls and triangular facades, FTP name this Chinese-American architect best known for the Pyramide de Louvre and the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame.	I(eoh) M(ing) Pei	Alexander_Stirling_Calder	False
998	"This man's biographers include Joseph Dorfman and J.P. Diggin, who called him ""The Bard of Savagery."" Early in his career this man wrote an article on ""The Barbarian Status of Women,"" and he was the original translator of Ferdinand Lasalle's Science and the Workingmen. Longer works include The Instict of Workmanship and The Place of Science in Modern Civilization, and along with Charles Beard and John Dewey he founded the New School for Social Research. Best known for a work containing a section on the fur trade, this is, FTP, what economist, who coined the term 'conspicuous consumption"" in his The Theory of the Leisure Class?"	Thorstein Veblen	The_Theory_of_the_Leisure_Class	False
999	"In a story by this man the protagonist injures his head while rushing to read The Arabian Nights' Entertainments, leading him to convalesce in the title region, while Ryan quests to identify the assassin of Fergus Kilpatrick in another.  The author Jaromir Hladik is persecuted by the Nazi Julius Rothe in ""The Secret Miracle,"" and other characters from his works include a man who develops perfect memory after being thrown from a horse and Yu Tsun, a Chinese spy for Imperial Germany being pursued by Captain Richard Madden.  In addition to ""Funes, the Memorious"" and ""The Garden of Forking Paths,"" he wrote about a ""Lottery in Babylon"" and of an author praised for exactly rewriting Don Quixote.  FTP name this author, whose most famous works include ""El Aleph"" and ""The Library of Babel."""	Jorge Luis Borges	Don_Quixote	False
1000	This artist once completed a series with gouache and uncolored paper while bedridden, and those images are presented in a book interspersed with handwritten text. That series features many images related to the circus or to the theater, including The Sword Swallower, Cirque, The Clown, and Pierrot's Funeral. The most iconic image this artist created for that series shows a black, stylized man against a deep blue sky with geometric yellow stars, entitled Icarus. Along with the 1947 series Jazz, this French artist painted a colorful canvas with a woman herding goats with a flute, many nude people lying down, and a scene that would be recreated in The Danse. FTP, name this French artist of The Joy of Life, the leader of the Fauves.	Henri Matisse	Danse_Macabre	False
1001	In one of this man's novels, a fox ravaging poultry represents Henry Grenfel's intrusion in the lives of Nellie March and Jill Banford, while another features the complex relationship between Richard and Harriet Somers.  An anarchist's bomb destroys the titular flute at the end of a novel about a former secretary to a miners' union, and Kate Leslie cannot resist the masculinity of the Mexican General Viedma in The Plumed Serpent.  The fictional Brangwen family is featured in both The Rainbow and Women in Love, though he is better known for works that feature the loves of Paul Morel and the adulterous relationship between the gamekeeper Oliver Mellors and the wife of a paralyzed war veteran.  For 10 points, name this British author of Sons and Lovers and Lady Chatterley's Lover.	D(avid) H(erbert) Lawrence	Lady_Chatterley's_Lover	False
1002	His son lived in a silver-roofed hall with pillars of gold, which is known as Glitnir, and he himself lived in Breidablik. He was the possessor of a ship known as Hringhorni, and his wife, Nanna, threw herself on the ship's funeral pyre in an act of devotion. This titular character in a Matthew Arnold poem tells Hermod that he was tired of living in a strife-filled world, and Hermod traveled to Helheim to retrieve his soul, but failed. His mother Frigg failed to protect this figure from one item, which was thrown at him by his twin brother. FTP, name this son of Odin, the Norse god of beauty, who died from a mistletoe arrow.	Balder	Frigg	False
1003	One of this work's protagonist's liaisons is ended by an anonymous letter from a poorhouse manager after his best friend tries to entice him into the lumber business.  A pivotal moment in the novel occurs as a result of a lawsuit between his eventual employer and Monsieur de Frillair, which prompts the protagonist to leave Besancon with Father Pirard.  He becomes friends with Count Norbert, the son of the Marquis de la Mole, for whom he works as a secretary.  After impregnating the marquis' daughter he is set up as a rich man, but he loses his fortune after his previous involvement with a mayor's wife is revealed.  The struggle of Julien Sorel is chronicled in, FTP, what novel by Stendhal, whose title reflects the colorful dichotomy between church and state.	The Red and the Black (accept: Le Rouge et le Noir, The Scarlet and the Black)	The_Red_and_the_Black	True
1004	It is unknown whether they are Majorana particles, and therefore it is unclear if they are released in double beta decays. They were recently used in an article in Nature to investigate the uranium and thorium content of the inner Earth. Found to oscillate between their different varieties by experiments conducted in Japanese mines, they were shown to not be massive enough to account for dark matter. However, the KamLAND and Super-Kamiokande experiments did show that, contrary to long-held suspicions, they do have mass.  FTP, name these uncharged leptons that come in electron, muon, and tau varieties.	Neutrinos	Uranium	False
1005	"This author tells the title character of one of his poems that ""The meteors of a mimic day/Shall flash upon thine eyes"" after promising to ""build of ice thy winter home.""  He exhorts his reader to ""Weep not that the world changes"" in ""Mutation,"" and he declares ""Woe to the English Soldiery/That little dread us near!"" in a poem about men led by the Marquis de Lafayette.  The collections The White-Footed Deer and The Fountain followed the success of his first collection, the satirical The Embargo.  His best-known poems include one that addresses ""him who in the love of Nature holds/Communion with her visible forms"" and a poem about the power who ""will lead my steps aright"" along with guiding the title bird.  FTP name this poet of ""To a Waterfowl"" and ""Thanatopsis."""	William Cullen Bryant	Thanatopsis	False
1006	Devices designed to exhibit this effect are often made of the same materials as capacitor dielectrics, such as lead zirconate titanate and lead magnesium niobate.  Discovered in 1880 by Pierre and Paul-Jacques Curie, it has a magnetic analogue called magnetostriction.  It is useful in micro positioning devices, and materials exhibiting its converse effect can act as transducers in SONAR and ultrasound.  It occurs only in crystals without a center of symmetry, which allows small displacements in ions in the crystal lattice and redistribution of electric charge.  Famously exhibited by quartz, FTP name this effect in which deformation of a crystal produces a voltage.	piezoelectricity or piezoelectric effect	Crystal	False
1007	He supposedly commissioned the calligrapher Omar Aqta to fit the entire Quran on a single ring, and he served briefly as minister to Ilyas Khoja before allying with Amir Husayn to seize the throne. Before he was buried in an ebony coffin at Gur-e Amir, he ordered his territories divvied up among various descendants, but his empire was briefly reunited by his grandson Shah Rokh. He kidnapped all the artisans of Damascus and defeated Mahmud Tughluq in the 1398 battle of Panipat, leading to the  crippling sack of Delhi. This man, born into the Barlas tribe of the Chagatai khanate, fought with the Knights of Rhodes at Smyrna and waged a proxy war on Russia by supporting Tokhtamysh, who turned on this man after he conquered Iran. FTP, name this Samarkand-based warlord who stacked the skulls of the rebellious in pyramids, and whose epithet suggests a boyhood injury that caused him to be crippled.	Tamerlane [accept Timur-e Lang, accept Timurlank; Timur the Lame, Tamburlaine, and other reasonably close pronounciations]	Timur	True
1008	Two of this man's later works, Vital Involvement in Old Age and The Life Cycle Completed, were written with his son Jon. He collaborated with Alfred Kroeber on studies of the Yurok Indians, and he first studied cultural influences on psychological development among the Sioux Indians at Pine Ridge. He won the Pulitzer Prize for his historical work Gandhi's Truth, and he applied his theories to explain how the titular figure was able to break with the religious establishment in Young Man Luther. Heavily influenced by Freud, his most famous theory said that each time division of a person's life was dominated by a crisis, such as initiative vs. guilt and trust vs. mistrust. FTP name this author of Childhood and Society, in which he posited his eight stages of psychosocial development.	Erik Erikson	Mahatma_Gandhi	False
1009	"Blatchford Sarnemington is the imaginary alter-ego of Rudolph Miller, who habitually lies to Father Schwartz during confession in one of this man's short stories. ""Absolution"" is more romantic than his best-known non-fiction work, which includes the articles ""Pasting it Together,"" ""Handle with Care,"" and the titular ""The Crack-Up,"" which details his nervous breakdown at age 39. His only drama, a tale of postman who becomes president entitled The Vegetable, was received poorly, and his later exploits as a screenwriter were fictionalized in works like ""A Man in the Way"" and ""No Harm Trying."" Best known for characters like the screenwriter Pat Hobby, film producer Monroe Stahr, the young man Anthony Patch, and the psychologist Dick Diver, FTP, name this author of ""Babylon Revisited,"" The Last Tycoon, The Beautiful and the Damned, Tender is the Night, and the tale of Nick Carraway, The Great Gatsby."	F. Scott Fitzgerald	The_Great_Gatsby	False
1010	In a material with this property, the remanence refers to its magnitude in the absence of a driving force, while coercivity measures how strong a field is needed to remove this property. Its lack of retraceability is noted by a hysteresis loop, and this phenomenon can be attributed to the unfilled energy levels in the 3d level of certain elements. The susceptibility of materials possessing this property can be determined by the Curie-Weiss law beyond a specific point. It is a result of permanent unpaired dipoles within domains that line up with an imposed magnetic field due to long range ordering. Once materials exhibiting this property surpass the Curie temperature, they tend to behave as paramagnets. FTP, name this form of magnetism common to particular metals, most notably observed in nickel, cobalt, and iron.	ferromagnetism [accept word forms]	Ferromagnetism	True
1011	"In one of this man's stories the cab driver Iona prolongs fares unnecessary in order to tell passengers about his recently deceased son.  The title character of another story looks through a porthole of an infirmary ship to see Chinese men shouting ""It sings! It sings!,"" while in a better-known work Nikolai becomes nostalgic for the country life as he dreams of growing the title fruit.  In addition to ""Gusev"" and ""Gooseberries,"" this man wrote a story in which a man vacationing at Yalta meets Anna Sergeevna von Diederitz, the mysterious canine-loving title character.  Better known are plays such as The Wood Demon, which was later adapted into a play about a burnt-out intellectual who incurably lusts after Yelena, the wife of Professor Alexandr Serebryakov.  Other subjects of his dramas include the estate of Madame Ranevskaya and the Prozorov family along with Konstantin Treplev, who leaves the title bird at the feet of Nina Zaretchyn.  FTP name this author of The Cherry Orchard, Uncle Vanya, and The Seagull."	Anton Chekhov	The_Cherry_Orchard	False
1012	Scientists at Los Alamos National Lab recently announced that they could predict the timing of earthquake-like events that produce 'glitches' in these astronomical bodies. The accretion type of this object results from a particular kind of binary system, while another variety is powered by the decay of an extremely strong magnetic field. These high field strengths lead to the lighthouse effect, which, coupled with the misalignment of their magnetic and rotational axes, explain their basic properties. First dubbed Little Green Men by Jocelyn Bell Burnell, FTP name these rotating neutron stars that emit electromagnetic radiation detected at regular intervals on earth.	pulsars	Neutron_star	False
1013	"In the first stanza of this poem, the author tells his beloved that ""the last age should show your heart"" after their passions subside. The speaker's desire runs so deep that he would love her ""ten years before the flood,"" but she could, ""if [she] please, refuse / Till the conversion of the Jews."" The second stanza expresses the author's angst about the future, when ""Thy beauty shall no more be found,"" so he comes back to suggest that they ""roll all [their] strength and all / [Their] sweetness up into one ball"" near the end. Opening with the conjecture ""Had we but world enough, and time,"" FTP name this poem in which the author hears ""Time's winged chariot hurrying near,"" the most famous work of Andrew Marvell."	"""To His Coy Mistress"""	To_His_Coy_Mistress	True
1014	When reacted with a nitrile, they produce an imine anion that can be hydrolyzed into a ketone, and they can cause nucleophilic ring opening of epoxides. Pouring a solution of them over dry ice followed by protonation results in carboxylic acids, which will not form addition products with these. One of their most common uses is reacting with aldehydes and ketones to form secondary and tertiary alcohols, respectively. Because they essentially act as carbanions, they can be protonated by weak acids to yield alkanes. FTP name these organometallic reagents that are formed by reacting an alkyl halide with magnesium, named for their French discoverer.	Grignard reagents	Ketone	False
1015	This author wrote about the orchestra director Gabriel Atlan-Ferrera's love for the titular soprano in Inez. He explored the history of his native country in two early works: one following Franz, Isabella, Javier, and Elizabeth as they drive to Cholula in a VW bug; and another featuring the god-like Ixca Cienfuegos as he interacts with the upper class after his country's revolution. After A Change of Skin and Where the Air is Clear, he expanded into Spanish history, specifically the building of the Escorial, in Terra Nostra. He is best known, though, for a novel written in all three voices about the last moments of a corrupt, wealthy politician who betrayed his way through the Mexican Revolution. FTP name this author of The Death of Artemio Cruz.	Carlos Fuentes	Carlos_Fuentes	True
1016	"John Rutter wrote one of these compositions that opens with a setting of a Thomas Ken writing. Frederick Delius used passages from Also Sprach Zarathustra in his version of this form, and Leonard Bernstein, at the request of Jacqueline Kennedy, wrote a dramatized version that features many musical styles, including rock-n-roll and blues. Stravinsky wrote a ""very cold"" setting with only moderate instrumentation, apparently as a reaction against elaborate settings like Mozart's ""Coronation"" version. J.S. Bach combined several earlier compositions into his seminal setting in B minor. FTP name this musical form found in Ordinary and Proper varieties, designed to be used in Catholic worship services."	Mass [accept Ordinary Mass b/c the works are all more or less Ordinaries]	Thus_Spoke_Zarathustra	False
1017	He was the original leader of the Wild Hunt, which rode around killing people annually from October 31st to April 30th. In one story, he disguised himself as a farm hand named Bolverk to gain access to a mead made from honey and the blood of Kvasir, the wisest of the Vanir. In another story, he participated in a question answering contest with the wise giant Vafthrudnir to learn of his fate. More famously, he gained wisdom by piercing himself with his spear Gugnir and hanging from Yggdrasil for nine days, and sacrificing one eye for a drink from Mimir's well. Also the possessor of the eight legged horse Sleipnir and the ravens Hugin and Munin, FTP name this deity destined to be eaten by Fenrir at Ragnarok, the chief god of the Norse pantheon.	Odin [or Wotan; or Wodan]	Yggdrasil	False
1018	One work by this author moves backward in time to chronicle the cuckoldry of Robert by Emma with Roger and Jerry. The friendship between Pete, Mark, and Len is disrupted by Virginia in one of his works, while Dr. Hornby wakes a woman with sleeping sickness who subsequently thinks she's an adolescent in his one-act play A Kind of Alaska. In another play Aston rescues a shiftless bigot from a bar-fight and brings him to a junk-filled room, where Mick performs electroshock therapy on him. A delivery girl ends up spread-eagled on a table in front of an out-of-work pianist at Meg Boles' boarding house in one of his better-known plays, while another features Ben and Gus arguing next to the title device. FTP name this British playwright known for The Birthday Party and The Dumbwaiter.	Harold Pinter	The_Dumb_Waiter	False
1019	A debate exists as to whether the parasitic Myxozoa belong to this phylum, of which one of the classes is differentiated from the other three by their body type never leaving the polyp stage. Members of that class, the Anthozoa, do contain the defense mechanism common to the phylum, but apparently lack the delivery mechanism capable of making it harmful to humans, and many of them are dependent on a symbiotic relationship with dinoflagellates. Two other classes, Scyphozoans and Hydrozoans, are far more dangerous to humans due to their deployment of nematocytes during their medusoid stages. FTP identify this phylum formerly known as Coelenterata but now named for an alternate term for their stinging cells, which includes sea fans, corals, anemones, and jellyfish.	"Cnidaria [prompt on ""Coelenterata"" before that is read]"	Cnidaria	True
1020	"He bites his arm and draws blood into his mouth in order to announce a sight which seems to put ribs over the sun. Soon after, he is cursed by all two hundred of his companions and forced to spend a week with their dead bodies. and he encounters the Polar Spirit and the Hermit of the Wood. He is won in a dice game by Life-in-Death and, as part of his penance, he ""stoppeth one of three"" out of a party of wedding guests to tell his tale, which starts when he is blamed for causing the wind to stop blowing by using his crossbow to shoot an albatross. FTP, name this penitent title character of a Samuel Taylor Coleridge ""Rime."""	the Ancient Mariner	The_Rime_of_the_Ancient_Mariner	True
1021	He was influenced by the Utrecht School and Carel Fabritius, of whose works he owned several and under whom he may also have studied. Among his less famous works are Woman with a Balance, whose wide interpretations include the soul's peril before worldly temptation, female virtue or grace, or the divine truth of revealed religion, while he is also known for several paintings featuring women reading letters such as Girl Reading a Letter at an Open Window, and for his allegory The Art of Painting sometimes known as The Artist in His Studio. Only recently firmly believed to be the actual painter of one of the works best associated with him, FTP name this artist of Girl with a Pearl Earring.	Jan Vermeer	Truth	False
1022	"Denise falls in love with the decadent department store owner Octave in his The Delight of the Ladies, while speculation and land hunger feature prominently in his works The Prey and The Earth. The evil effects of alcoholism is the subject of his The Drunkard, also translated as The Dram Shop, and in three of his novels Claude, Jacques, and Etienne all come to sticky ends due to their descent from the madwoman Adelaide Fouque and the scoundrel Macquart, who forms with the family ""Rougon"" the title of the series of which The Masterpiece, The Downfall, and Therese Raquin are part. FTP name this author of Nana and Germinal who also castigated the French armed forces for their anti-Semitism in J'Accuse."	Emile Zola	Émile_Zola	False
1023	He began to compose a cantata in 1863 which was based on a dramatic poem by Goethe, and is named for a knight who becomes enchanted by the witch Armida. He adapted the theme from the Presto section of the Choral Symphony for the final movement of his first symphony, which took him fifteen years to complete. One of his most famous works was written for the newly born son of his friend Bertha Faber, while he combined a full chorus, solo voices, and an orchestra with texts from the Lutheran Bible for his great choral work, the German Requiem. FTP, identify this Romantic composer from Austria, best known for variations on themes from Haydn and Handel, the Academic Festival Overture, and for his Lullaby.	Johannes Brahms	Symphony_No._9_(Beethoven)	False
1024	In one of this author's works, the feminist Bertha attempts to humiliate her artist husband with the help of Abel.  The arrival of Eleonora helps to redeem the Heyst family in a play set on a certain holiday. The Baron and Baroness Sprengel are featured in a one-act play in sixteen scenes known as The Link, while in a more famous work Captain Adolf is taken to an insane asylum due to the machinations of his scheming wife Laura.  The student Arkenholz is the protagonist of a work which, along with After the Fire, Pelican, and The Storm makes up his series of Chamber Plays.  His better known characters include the writer Arvid Falk in The Red Room and a titular girl who seduces and makes a suicide pact with the valet Jean.  FTP name this author of Miss Julie.	August Strindberg	Miss_Julie	False
1025	"The fourth movement is in G sharp minor and features an alto saxophone melody over a drone ostinato in 6/8 time, which represents a minstrel playing a mandolin. A later movement uses a tenor tuba solo to depict some animals pulling a wagon. In addition to ""The Old Castle"" and ""Cattle,"" this composition includes ""The Catacombs"" and ""Ballet of the Unhatched Chicks,"" which is preceded by a Promenade. A stately procession through a never built Ukrainian structure was the inspiration for the last movement, entitled ""The Great Gate of Kiev."" FTP, name this suite famously orchestrated by Maurice Ravel, based on some art works of Viktor Hartmann and composed by Modest Mussorgsky."	Pictures at an Exhibition	Pictures_at_an_Exhibition	True
1026	"This man's biographers include Joseph Dorfman and J.P. Diggin, who called him ""The Bard of Savagery.""  Early in his career this man wrote an article on ""The Barbarian Status of Women,"" and he was the original translator of Ferdinand Lasalle's Science and the Workingmen.  Longer works include The Instict of Workmanship and The Place of Science in Modern Civilization, and along with Charles Beard and John Dewey he founded the New School for Social Research.  Best known for a work containing a section on the fur trade, this is, FTP, what economist, who coined the term 'conspicuous consumption"" in his The Theory of the Leisure Class?"	Thorstein Veblen	The_Theory_of_the_Leisure_Class	False
1027	In the Simmons-Smith reaction, these compounds react with iodomethyl zinc iodide to form cyclopropanes, and the same product can be formed by reacting them with a carbene.  Treatment with mercury acetate in aqueous solvent followed by reduction leads to alcohol formation, as does reacting them with borane followed by treatment with hydrogen peroxide, the latter of which leads to the anti-Markovnikov product.  Osmium tetraoxide adds to them to form diols, and they can be cleaved by ozone into two carbonyl containing compounds.  Commonly formed from the dehydrohalogenation of an alkyl halide or dehydration of an alcohol, FTP name these organic compounds characterized by the presence of a carbon-carbon double bond.	alkenes [accept olefin]	Carbon	False
1028	This man joined the staff of the Burgholzli Asylum under the direction of Eugen Bleuler and had great success with association tests. Samuel Beckett claimed to experience a revelation after hearing a lecture in which this man referred to a patient as having never properly been born. He gained fame in his field after publishing The Psychology of Dementia Praecox, and his publication of Psychology of the Unconscious in 1912 led to his break with Freud. In Psychological Types, he divided people into introverts and extroverts, but he is even more famous for studying the shadow and the anima. FTP name this Swiss founder of analytic psychology who researched the role of archetypes and the collective unconsciousness.	Carl Jung	Sigmund_Freud	False
1029	Setting the partial derivative of this quantity equal to zero will allow one to arrive at the standard form Kohler Equation, and at constant temperature, the partial derivative of this quantity with respect to pressure is simply equal to volume.  For a single species in a mixture and all else constant, the partial molar value of this quantity is equivalent to its chemical potential.  Its standard change in a voltaic cell is defined as the negative product of moles of charge, Faraday constant, and potential difference, while in a chemical reaction it is the negative product of the ideal gas constant, temperature, and the equilibrium constant.  Most generally defined as enthalpy minus the product of temperature and entropy, FTP name this thermodynamic parameter whose change must be less than zero for a reaction to be spontaneous.	Gibbs Free Energy	Chemical_potential	False
1030	"In one of his poems this man writes that his shadow ""glides in silence over the watercourse"" and ""moves like a huge violet-colored mosquito."" He claims he will ""be a free sign of oppressed norms on the neck of the stiff branch"" in a poem known only as ""sonnet.""  In a play by this author a woman lusts after the shepherd Victor after strangling her husband, while another work features a woman who sings a lullaby about a horse who ""won't drink from the stream"" and a young woodcutter who represents the moon.  Adela hangs herself after her mother threatens Pepe with a pistol in the third play of his Rural Trilogy, The House of Bernarda Alba.  FTP name this Spanish author of Blood Wedding who was shot to death on the orders of Francisco Franco."	Federico Garcia Lorca	Francisco_Franco	False
1031	"Susanne Wood and Marshall Grossman have written extensively about the relationship of a poem by Amelia Lanyer to one of this man's famous works.  A monologue from one of this man's works describes a woman who makes it a point ""Still to be neat"" and is alternately titled ""Simplex Munditiis.""  That play features the character Sir Amorous La-Foole and concerns Morose's hatred of noise.  Plays by this author include The Isle of Dogs and one about the witless goldsmith Touchstone, Eastward, Ho!  Better known are a poem about Phillip Sidney's house, ""To Penshurst,"" a song that begins ""Drink to me, only, with thine eyes,"" and a play about a fox.  FTP name this author of To Celia, better known for plays like The Alchemist and Volpone."	Ben Jonson	Volpone	False
1032	This ruler had military success in taking Dorpat, and inaugurated an eastward expansion after conquering Astrakhan. He celebrated another victory by having Barma construct a religious structure also known as the Cathedral of Intercession of the Virgin on the Moat. However, he gave up Narva in the Treaty of Plussa with Sweden, and in the Treaty of Jam Zapolski, renounced claims to Livonia. The Oprichniks were members of his private army, which he used to terrorize the boyars, and the first Zemsky Sobor was called by him. His son Feodor was succeeded by Boris Godunov, who likely killed his youngest son Dmitri. FTP, name first Russian to take the title of tsar, who was nicknamed for his fearsome acts.	Ivan IV or Ivan the Terrible or Ivan Groznyi	Boris_Godunov	False
1033	"In the introduction to this novel the author describes himself as the ""manager of the performance"" and refers to his characters as puppets.  The two main characters attend an institution that has been honored by the presence of ""THE GREAT LEXICOGRAPHER,"" Pinkerton School.  Another character eschews hunting and entertainments at Fuddleston to be with his Aunt Bute.  At her parsonage he meets his siblings' governess, who had attended a large party at Vauxhall just before taking her appointment.  Also at that party were two soldiers, George and Joseph, who eventually fall for the two main characters.  One has an affair with Lord Steyne after marrying Rawdon Crawley, while the other eventually marries Captain Dobbin after George Osborne dies at Waterloo.  FTP name this ""novel without a hero"" about Amelia Sedley and her conniving friend Becky Sharp by William Thackeray."	Vanity Fair	Vanity_Fair_(novel)	True
1034	By refusing a bunch of Muscatel grapes the protagonist rejects his former love, who eventually flees with her son Albert.  His servant Haidee confronts Albert's father about his betrayal of Ali Pasha, which leads to his suicide.  The protagonist saves Valentine from her mother's mad poison rampage and reunites her with her love Maximillian, the son of a shipping master who had taken care of the protagonist's father.  He gives a diamond to his old neighbor Caderousse for telling him about a banker and a politician with familial connections to Napoleon who had arranged for him to be sent to the Chateau d'If, where he learned of the Abbe Faria's fortune on the titular island.  FTP name this novel about Edmond Dantes by Alexander Dumas, p?e.	The Count of Monte Cristo or Le Comte de Monte Cristo	The_Count_of_Monte_Cristo	True
1035	"A line from one of this man's poems forms the title of a book subtitled ""Studies in the Structure of Poetry"" by Cleanth Brooks.  He ponders about ""what thou and I/Did, till we loved"" in a poem in which he claims ""My face in thine eye, thine in mine appears,/And true plain hearts do in the faces rest,"" ""The Good-Morrow."" The title feeling ""doth unperplex/(We said) and tell us what we love"" in his poem ""The Ecstasy,  while he declares ""Kind pity chokes my spleen"" in the third of his Satires.  He writes that ""We'll build in sonnets pretty rooms"" in ""The Canonizaiton,"" while ""At the Round Earth's Imagin'd Corners"" and ""Batter my heart, three-person'd God"" are part of a sonnet cycle that also includes a poem in which he tells the title figure ""thou shalt die.""  Known for his Holy Sonnets, this is, FTP, what author of ""Death, Be not Proud"" and ""A Valediction: Forbidding Mourning?"""	John Donne	Sonnets_from_the_Portuguese	False
1036	They normally have association energies between -12 and -40 kilojoules per mole.  The bifurcated type occurs when each donor interacts with two acceptors and vice versa.  They tend to be linear, with the donor group pointing along the acceptor's lone pair orbital, though deviations often occur, particularly within the secondary structure of proteins.  With approximately 10% covalent character, they are predominantly electrostatic interactions between electronegative atoms, such as fluorine, nitrogen, or oxygen, and their namesake.  FTP name these bonds that explain the unusual physical characteristics of water, named for the presence of the first element on the periodic table.	hydrogen bonds	Hydrogen_bond	True
1037	"A person by this English name who was a canonized member of the Portuguese royal family settled a dispute between Afonso IV of Portugal and Alfonso XI of Castile, earning her the nickname ""Peacemaker."" Italian anarchist Lugi Leccheni killed another one, who was the queen consort to Franz Josef in Austria. Another woman of this name made the Golden Speech, put down a rebellion by her servant Robert Devereux, and mandated use of the Book of Common Prayer by the Act of Uniformity, several decades before she was targeted by the Spanish Armada. FTP, name this successor of Mary I and daughter of Henry VIII, who never married."	Elizabeth (I)	Spanish_Armada	False
1038	"His earliest works included landscapes such as Going West, produced during his tutelage under Albert Pinkham Ryder, and later works such as Frogman echoed the exploration of Jungian archetypes that influenced earlier works like Guardians of the Secret. This early work was also influenced by Orozco and Rivera. After Mural, a work that included elements of Thomas Hart Benton's techniques, he turned in the late 1940s to Galaxy and Eyes in the Heat, early examples of his ""poured"" painting technique. Art historians have argued that his work led to the viewer's association not with the subject but with the artist. Full Fathom Five is one of the best-known works of, FTP, this founder of the school of abstract expressionism."	Jackson Pollock	Diego_Rivera	False
1039	Tomasso Landolfi wrote a novel in which this man is married to a balloon doll named Caracas.  In one story by this man a theology student is terrorized by a witch over whom he refuses to read last rites, which results in the summoning of the title gnome.  He completely revised his first play three times, producing An Official's Morning, The Servants' Hall, and The Lawsuit.  A better-known short story features a government clerk who loves the Chief of the Division's daughter Sophie and includes the improbable correspondences of Madgie and Fidele, two dogs.  The machinations of Osip to exploit his master Ivan's case of mistaken identity in a small town is the subject of his best-known play, The Inspector General.  Also known for a story about Akaky Akakievich's lost jacket and a novel about the collector Pavel Chichikov, FTP name this author of The Overcoat and Dead Souls.	Nikolai Gogol	The_Overcoat	False
1040	"His first opera was about a 13th century German knight who loves the wife of the antagonist Duke Robert, the lady Freihild. His last opera or ""conversation piece"" on the contrary, is a debate among musicians, poets, and artists about whether words or music is more important in opera, set in a 18th century Countess's house in a single act entitled Capriccio. His final work uses Joseph Eichendorff's poem Im Abendrot and three Herman Hesse settings related to death for Vier letzte lieder. FTP, name this composer of Tod und Verkalung, Till Eulenspiegel's Merry Pranks, and Ein Heldenleben, which were among his tone poems, the most famous being Don Juan."	Richard Strauss	Hermann_Hesse	False
1041	"In a novel by Pia Pera the title character of this work is given a notebook so that she can communicate with her dead father Gerald.  Two characters are referenced respectively as ""Schlegel"" and ""Hegel"" in comparison to a woman in whose ""natty little coupe"" the protagonist travels for two years.  A problem is solved for the protagonist when one character gets hit by Frederick Beale's car, after which he travels with the title character to the Enchanted Hunters.  After finding out the title character had sex with the son of the director of Camp Q, the protagonist begins an affair with her. Eventually he finds her married to Richard Schiller, having earlier been abducted by Clare Quilty.  Told in the form of a confession edited by John Ray, Jr., this is, FTP, what novel about Humbert Humbert's obsession with Dolores Haze by Vladimir Nabokov?"	Lolita (or Dolores Haze) (The update refers to Pia Pera's Lo's Diary.)	Lolita	True
1042	Though he completed etchings including Abduction of Proserpina on a Unicorn and Agony in the Garden during his period of maturity, he was better known for a form he learned while serving as an apprentice under Michael Wolgemut.  Among his work in that form is a 1515 work derived from written description and brief sketch of a rhinoceros, and a depiction of an angel in sad thought with a magic square in the background, Melancholia I.  For ten points, name this artist, famous for woodcuts like Knight, Death, and the Devil, and Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse.	Albrecht D?rer	Rhinoceros	False
1043	This equation applies approximately for small perturbations of any system in stable equilibrium, as can be seen by a second order Taylor expansion of the energies involved.  Cauchy expanded its anisotropic form to three dimensional bodies, making use of a compliance matrix and its inverse.  It asserts that locally, stress and strain have the same linear relationship as they would have in a perfect simple harmonic oscillator, but it breaks down beyond the elastic limit.  With a minus sign showing how the system tends to return to equilibrium, FTP what is this law commonly applied to springs that relates force to displacement?	Hooke's Law	Augustin-Louis_Cauchy	False
1044	"A leader from the latter phase of this conflict was Jacobus Hercules De la Rey, who would eventually be shot dead by police. One side in this war achieved victory at Spion Kop by compelling the other side to try raising the siege of Ladysmith. Frederick Sleigh Roberts was eventually successful in relieving Maefiking and Kimberly, and Horatio Kitchener introduced the ""scorched earth"" policy and the concentration camp in this war, whose belligerents included a republic led by Paul Kruger. FTP, name this 1899 to 1902 war ended by the Peace of Vereeniging, which was fought between Great Britain and the Afrikaner states of South Africa."	the Second Anglo-Boer War [prompt on South African War]	Second_Boer_War	False
1045	This person depicts a wide-eyed, peasant-topped girl under a cloudy sky with left shoulder exposed, crosses to her left and tombstones to her right, in Orphan Girl at the Cemetery. A depiction of Louis IX on a white horse appears at center-left in this artist's unfinished The Battle of Tailleburg, while a chicken, hare, and lizard appear on the beach along with the titular crustacean in Still Life with Lobsters. Though later works like The Entry of the Crusaders into Constantinople hardly reflect the fact, this artist began as a neoclassicist as can be seen in the The Barque of Dante. FTP, name this painter of Women of Algiers in Their Apartments, The Massacre at Chios, The Death of Sardanapalus, and Liberty Leading the People; one of the foremost French romantics.	Ferdinand-Eug?e-Victor Delacroix	Fourth_Crusade	False
1046	"This person's thesis on Garc? M?quez is subtitled ""Story of a God-Killer,"" while other critical work include 1975's The Perpetual Orgy about Madame Bovary. The Young Lady of Tacna, Kathie and the Hippopotamus, and La Chunga comprise this writer's Three Plays, while time spent at a military school colored his first novel, The Time of the Hero. FTP, name this Spanish-language author best known for The Real Life of Alejandro Mayta, The War of the End of the World, and the autobiographical Aunt Julia and the Scriptwriter; probably the foremost novelist of Peru."	Jorge Mario Pedro Vargas Llosa [YO-suh] (prompt on partial last name)	Aunt_Julia_and_the_Scriptwriter	False
1047	"Two of this person's best-known works are unfinished, in one case because the story of how Sir Leoline handles the demonic lesbian Geraldine was never completed and in the other case because a man from Porlock interrupted the transcription of the dream in which it was a vision. Although this artist's critical work Biographia Literaria has some merit and his son Hartley wrote a number of successful poems, this writer's reputation rests on his own poems including ""Frost at Midnight,"" ""The ?lian Harp,"" and ""Dejection: An Ode"" as well as the aforementioned ""Christabel"" and ""Kubla Khan."" FTP, name this English romantic poet best known for working with Wordsworth on Lyrical Ballads."	Samuel Taylor Coleridge	Kubla_Khan	False
1048	"Reaction of these compounds with a strong acid may produce a tri-alkyl oxonium salt.  Allyl aryl ones can undergo the Claissen Rearrangement, and the smallest cyclic member of this group is ethylene oxide, while cyclic poly- ones are known as ""crown.""  Members of this class of chemicals can be produced by dehydroxation of alcohols or by alkoxide nucleophilic displacement on an alkyl halide, which is known as the Williamson synthesis.  FTP, name these chemical compounds defined by the presence of an oxygen bonded to two alkyl groups and perhaps best known for their diethyl variety, which is a notable anesthetic."	ethers	Ether	True
1049	"The capture of this nation's ship Marqu? of Olinda led to a war in which its forces were commanded by the Duke of Caxias. This state achieved independence with the ""Fico"" speech of its first ruler, who was deposed in favor of his son nine years later. That son  promulgated the Lei ?urea or Golden Law which freed this country's slaves, but one year later, Dom Pedro II abdicated. This country joined Argentina and Uruguay in the Triple Alliance and has been run in more recent times by Itamar Franco, Fernando Cardoso, Get?lio Vargas, and Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva. FTP, name this South American country claimed by Pedro Cabral for Portugal."	the Federative Republic of Brazil [or Rep?blica Federativa do Brasil]	Uruguay	False
1050	This reaction features a short-lived four-membered ring intermediate, which forms during the spontaneous decomposition of the initial intermediate, a neutral, dipolar compound known as a betaine [BAY-ta-een].  The essential reagent for this reaction, a neutral compound with adjacent positive and negative charges, possesses a strongly nucleophilic carbon that attacks the carbon of a carbonyl to form the desired product plus a triphenylphosphine oxide.  Used to create an alkene from a ketone or aldehyde, FTP name this reaction that requires the use of a phosphorus-stabilized carbanion known as an ylide [ILL-id], named for the winner of the 1979 Nobel Prize in Chemistry.	Wittig reaction	Wittig_reaction	True
1051	One of his paintings shows a woman holding a withering pink flower next to a small dog.  Another shows a boy in red standing between two funny looking chubby adults in the Palace of Aranjuez.  He married the sister of Francisco Bayeu, who secured him the commission to decorate Church of the Virgin in Zaragoza.  Influenced by Tiepolo, his Marquesa de Pontejos is in the style of Gainsborough.  Deaf for much of his career, he made prints like Los Caprichos, and followed Velazquez's model in caricaturing The Family of Charles IV.  Most famous for depicting a man in white executed by a firing squad, FTP, name this Spanish painter of Saturn Devouring his Children and The Third of May, 1808.	Francisco de Goya	Thomas_Gainsborough	False
1052	"One writer from this country created an artist whose crowning achievement, a painting titled Scumscape, is censored and confiscated.  Another created the fictional country of Shavi and wrote of The Joys of Motherhood.  Another ""bemoaned the death of a great dream"" in his ""Elegy for Alto"", written a year before his murder by the Gowon Military.  A fourth published his collection of prison notes, The Man Died, in addition to Kongi's Harvest and The Lion and the Jewel, and the best-known author from this country is responsible for Anthills of the Savannah and No Longer at Ease.  FTP, identify this home of Christopher Okigbo, Wole Soyinka, and Chinua Achebe, the capital of which is Lagos."	Nigeria	Chinua_Achebe	False
1053	"A comet hits Cadiz in this man's play about Victoria and Diego, while Dora resolves to follow Kaliayev's fate after he is executed for bombing the Grand Duke in The Just Assassins. Other dramas include ""The Possessed"" and ""The Misunderstanding."" Along with stories like ""The Growing Stone"" and ""The Adulterous Woman"" collected in The Exile and the Kingdom, he created the character Jacques Cormery in his last, unfinished novel. Nonfiction works include a treatise claiming that the only truly serious philosophical problem is suicide and his Stalinist The Rebel, but he is better known for his existentialist novels.  FTP, name this author who wrote about Dr. Bernard Rieux in The Plague and Mersault in The Stranger."	Albert Camus	The_stranger	False
1054	"In one of this man's poems he begs a nightingale to ""timely sing, ere the rude Bird of Hate/Foretell my hopeless doom"" and in his eleventh sonnet he references another of his works, the Tetrachordon.  In his only play an ""attendant spirit"" summons Sabrina to save three siblings from the title character, a son of Bacchus and Circe.  In a poem addressed to Cyriack Skinner he resolves to ""let Euclid rest, and Archimedes pause,"" and his better-known works include two companion poems in which he denounces then eulogizes melancholy, ""L'Allegro"" and ""Il Penseroso.""  Also the author of a work whose title character is ""Eyeless in Gaza"" and an elegy on the death of Edward King, this is, FTP, what poet, best-known for his biblical epic ""Paradise Lost?"""	John Milton	Archimedes	False
1055	"His self portaits include one ""between clock and bed"" and another as ""the wanderer."" A girl stands in front of a boat in his The Voice, and the title figure is naked and convulsing in his Madonna; those works join with his Ashes, Jealousy, and Melancholy in a large series consisting of most of his thematic works. He depicted the death of his sister from tuberculosis in The Sick Child, while the reactions of family members to a similar event are the subject of his Death in the Sick Room. He considered most of his paintings to be a part of his series The Frieze of Life, including a work inspired during a walk along the Ljabrochauss?n, which shows the influence of Krakatoa in the red sky above the bald and elongated central figure who is clasping his head in anguish. FTP, name this Norwegian painter of The Scream."	Edvard Munch	The_Scream	False
1056	This man's daughter released a novel in 2006 which tells of Eva's encounters with the farmhand Ezekial, entitled Skinner's Drift, while his wife is the author of Rite of Passage, Threshhold, and Castaways. This man himself wrote a play in which Marius Byleveld's attempts to put Miss Helen in a nursing home are stopped by Elsa Barlow, and another in which Gladys, who has recently returned from the Fort England Clinic, repeatedly hides a diary before denying that Piet sold Steve out to the police. The major works by this author of A Lesson from Aloes and The Road to Mecca are known as the Port Elizabeth plays. Those include include the story of Sam training Willie for a dance contest at St. George's Park Tea Room, as well as the plays Hello and Goodbye, Boesman and Lena, and The Blood Knot. FTP, name this author of such anti-apartheid plays as No-Good Friday and Master Harold and the Boys.	Athol Fugard	Gaius_Marius	False
1057	"In Herman Hesse's Klingsor's Last Summer, the title character addresses his cruel friend Louis as one of these, while in Garcia Marquez's The Autumn of the Patriarch, the title character's mother spends her days adding color to them. Nikolai Diakonov is restored to the good graces of the Czar in a Rebecca West novel where these ""fall down,"" and Croft kills one that is rescued by Roft in Mailer's The Naked and the Dead. A seller of decrees, a man who wishes to kill his father, and the surveyor Meton all attempt to gain favors from them in a play where Pisthetaerus becomes their king. In that play, Epops and Trochilus establish Nephelococcygia and displace the worship of Zeus. FTP, name these title figures of an Aristophanes play, also found in Jerzy Kosinzki's book about a ""painted"" one and in a ""chronicle"" by Haruki Murakami about the ""wind-up"" kind."	birds	Haruki_Murakami	False
1058	The Hay test for jaundice makes use of this property because bile can alter its value for urine.  Thermodynamically, it is defined as the partial derivative of Gibbs free energy with respect to area at constant pressure and temperature, and it is related to temperature via the Eotvos equation.  LaPlace's law relates the collapsing pressure of a spherical bubble to twice the value of this property, which is also the driving force of capillary action.  Measured in dynes per centimeter and explained by the cohesive forces between molecules with nothing above them, FTP name this quantity that can be lowered by surfactants and allows certain bugs to walk on water.	surface tension	Pressure	False
1059	"In 2001, G.A. Cohen published a book-length defense of one of this man's interpretive theories, which was previously denounced as a ""farrago"" in The Illusion of the Epoch by H.B. Acton and attacked as immoral in Karl Popper's The Poverty of Historicism. That theory is found in his preface to A Contribution to a Critique of Political Economy. An analysis of contemporary politics is found in his The 18th Brumaire of Louis Napoleon, while his predictions for the future are found in the Critique of the Gotha Programme. He responded to Bruno Baeur's case for atheism by making a vague distinction between ""political"" freedom and ""human"" freedom in On The Jewish Question. He says that the need for ""communal essence"" pairs with alienation to create religion in Contribution to a Critique of Hegel's Philosophy of Right, which also comments that ""religion is the opiate of the people."" FTP, name this guy who had a theory of historical materialism and collaborated with Friedrich Engels on Capital."	Karl Marx	Karl_Popper	False
1060	Act Three of this work opens with Damis and Dorine arguing about Damis's plan to eavesdrop at a conversation between Damis's stepmother and the title character.  Dorine is the servant of Mariane, who is Damis's sister and who is in love with Val?e, though for a while it looks as though the title character will marry her.  The title character makes a move on Elmire, the wife of the deluded Orgon, but everything works out at the end when an officer of the king comes to arrest him.  FTP, name this play about a religious hypocrite which was written by Moli?e.	Tartuffe	Tartuffe	True
1061	"One sonnet addressed to this individual describes him as a ""lone star whose light did shine / On some frail bark in winter's midnight roar.""  That sonnet, which refers to him as a ""Poet of Nature,"" was written by Percy Bysshe Shelley, while this man's own sonnets include one which begins ""From low to high doth dissolution climb"" and another which instructs the reader to ""scorn not the sonnet.""  More famously, in other sonnets he declared himself ""surprised by joy"" and lamented that the ""world is too much with us.""  FTP, name this English Romantic who also wrote The Prelude and ""Tintern Abbey."""	William Wordsworth	Sonnet	False
1062	"During his years at the commoners' Stadtkonvikt school, he composed an unfinished operetta, The Looking-Glass Knight.  He remained poor, partly due to the continued failure of such operas as The Devil's Palace of Desire and Fernando.  His orchestral works include the so-called ""Little C Major"" symphony and a C minor work known as the ""Tragic"" symphony, as well as incidental music written for the play Rosamunde.  All those works are catalogued according to a system devised by Otto Deutsch, which is why they have ""D"" numbers.  FTP, name this composer of the early 19th century who also wrote a ""Great"" C major symphony and an ""Unfinished"" symphony."	Franz Schubert	Symphony_No._9_(Dvořák)	False
1063	"In one of this man's stories, Ivan Vasilyevich describes how he fell out of love with a woman named Varenka after he saw her father, a colonel, ordering his troops to beat a Tartar who had deserted.  In another of his stories, the fraudulent title object is created by a friend of the son of Fyodor Mikhailovich Smokovnikov, and leads Ivan Mironov to become a horse thief before he is murdered by Stepan Pelageyushkin.  In addition to ""After the Ball"" and ""The Forged Coupon,"" he wrote the suicide of Yevgeny Irtenev in ""The Devil"" and about a man named Pozdnyshev who murdered his wife in ""The Kreutzer Sonata.""  FTP, name this Russian writer who also wrote such novels as Resurrection, Anna Karenina, and War and Peace."	Leo Tolstoy	Ivan_the_Terrible	False
1064	"Evidence for recent volcanic activity on this planet is found near both Paragon Chasma and in the Sif Mons region. It possesses two ""continents,"" large regions several kilometers above the average elevation, that are named for a Babylonian deity and its Roman equivalent. It takes 243 days to turn about its axis, making its day longer than its year, and its rotation is retrograde. Sulfuric acid droplets, rather than water, form clouds that obscure features like  Maxwell Montes and insure a runaway ""greenhouse"" effect.  The second brightest object in the night sky is, FTP, what ""sister planet"" of earth and second planet from the Sun?"	Venus	Sulfuric_acid	False
1065	The Hay test for jaundice makes use of this property because bile can alter its value for urine.  Thermodynamically, it is defined as the partial derivative of Gibbs free energy with respect to area at constant pressure and temperature, and it is related to temperature via the Eotvos equation.  LaPlace's law relates the collapsing pressure of a spherical bubble to twice the value of this property, which is also the driving force of capillary action.  Measured in dynes per centimeter and explained by the cohesive forces between molecules with nothing above them, FTP name this quantity that can be lowered by surfactants and allows certain bugs to walk on water.	surface tension	Pressure	False
1066	One of this man's eponymous laws states that the first, second, and third components of the 4-gradient of the dual tensor vanish.  His namesake effect describes the rotation of polarized light by a magnetic field, and he also lends his name to the SI unit of a property which, for a sphere, is given by 4 pi times the permittivity of free space times the sphere's radius.  His eponymous law relating the curl of the electric field and the time derivative of the magnetic field was inspired by his experiments with a loop of wire and an electromagnet which showed that any change in the magnetic flux produces an emf.  FTP identify this namesake of the SI unit of capacitance who enunciated his eponymous law of induction.	Michael Faraday	Magnetic_field	False
1067	"In one of this man's novels, Ralph, the former governor of Isabella, laments ""the shipwreck which all my life I had sought to avoid.""  His earlier novels include The Suffrage of Elvira and The Mystic Masseur, while his short fiction is collected in A Flag on the Island.  Richard cooks up the titular plan to have Excal employees visit retirees in Mr. Stone and the Knights Companion, while in another novel Popo, Hat, and Bogart are among the residents of Miguel Street.  ""One out of Many"" and ""Tell Me Who to Kill"" along with the titular vignette make up In a Free State, while his better-known characters include a man who moves to Africa after buying a store from Nazruddin, Salim, and a journalist who wants nothing more than to own his own home.  FTP name this Trinidadian author of A Bend in the River and A House for Mr. Biswas."	V.S. Naipaul	A_House_for_Mr_Biswas	False
1068	The original version of one of his most famous works gave one title figure large, awkward feet and knees, and was rejected. His early works included The Music Party and the realistic Boy with a Basket of Fruit. The success of The Cardsharps, one of his first independent works, attracted the patronage of Cardinal Del Monte, for whom he painted The Lute Player. His most famous cycle of paintings is displayed in the Contarelli Chapel of San Luigi dei Francesi. His Death of the Virgin scandalously featured bared legs and a swollen belly, and his other religious works included The Deposition of Christ and a three-part cycle on Matthew the Evangelist, including St. Matthew's Vocation. FTP, identify this mannerist painter of Supper at Emmaus.	Michelangelo Merisi da Caravaggio	Mannerism	False
1069	"One emperor of this dynasty, who spent most of his rule traveling the country in disguise and learned Tibetan, ordered the execution of minister Liu Chin after piles of stolen gold and jewels were found in that man's house. During this time, the ""literati painting"" of the Wu School became prominent, and war against the Oyrat under Esen was lead by emperor Zhengtong's minister Wang Chen. The Yongle emperor coined the name Beijing during this period, and that city was occupied by Li Zicheng's peasant rebellion in the same year that this dynasty fell to the Jurchen. That same emperor dispatched the expedition of the Muslim eunuch admiral Zheng He during this dynasty which was established by Zhu Yuanzhang, the Hongwu Emperor, who overthrew the Mongols. FTP, name this Chinese dynasty which ruled from 1368 to 1644."	the Ming dynasty	Ming_dynasty	True
1070	Suzuki coupling requires a palladium metal catalyst and this element to carry an alkyl group for formation of a carbon-carbon bond.  In the highly reactive compounds it forms with hydrogen, it adopts structures according to Wade's rules; these bonds were described by Longuet-Higgins.  Addition across a carbon-carbon double bond and reaction with basic hydrogen peroxide results in the formation of an anti-Markovnikov product when an alkene is reacted with one of its hydrides.  Its nitrides are isoelectronic with carbon; the cubic-bonded form has nearly the hardness of diamond.  FTP, name this element whose hydrides are often described as having three-center two-electron bonds, notable for forming Lewis acidic compounds since it has only three valence electrons, which has atomic number 5 and symbol B.	boron	Carbon	False
1071	The presence of the E4 allele of apolipoprotein E increases the risk of this disease. Other disorders that may cause similar physical symptoms include Binswanger's disease and another disease that involves alpha-synuclein-containing Lewy bodies. Definitive histological diagnosis involves Bielschowsky or Congo red staining of a 40- to 43-amino-acid-long peptide derived from its precursor, A-P-P. Co-discovered by Kraepelin and its namesake, it prominently affects the hippocampus and association areas of the cortex. FTP, name this neurodegenerative disorder marked by accumulation of tau protein and beta-amyloid in neurofibrillary tangles and plaques, the most common cause of elderly dementia.	Alzheimer's disease or dementia	Alzheimer's_disease	True
1072	Schwinger calculated that a strong one would cause pair production from the vacuum. Surface defects concentrate it, leading to emission and breakdown. When added to the time derivative of the vector potential, it is curl-free. Relativistically it makes up half the components of the field strength tensor. Atomic spectral lines split when one is applied, a phenomenon known as the Stark effect. It exerts a force proportional to an object's charge and unrelated to its velocity. FTP, what is this concept introduced by Michael Faraday, proportional to the gradient of an electric potential?	electric field	Michael_Faraday	False
1073	"He presented a concrete and abstract theory of motion in his New Physical Hypothesis, while his other early works include a translation of the Theatetus and a dialogue, Pacidius Philalethi, which deals with the labyrinth of the continuum.  He concluded that ""love of God"" is our greatest good in his essay ""The Principles of Nature and Grace,"" while another of his late works concludes that under a perfect government no good act would be unrewarded, and no bad deed unpunished.  Those works were both written in 1714, and the first was prepared for Prince Eugene of Savoy.  In response to Coste's French translation of a major English work on epistemology, this man wrote his New Essays on the Human Understanding.  FTP, name this German philosopher of the Theodicy and the Monadology."	Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz	Translation	False
1074	This man made an oath of blood-brotherhood known as the anda by exchanging knuckle bones with Jamuka.  In his youth, this man allegedly murdered his brother Bekhter after the latter stole a fish that this man had caught, and soon thereafter he was imprisoned by the Tayichi'ut, a captivity which led this man to seek out the patronage of the Kerait leader Toghrul.  This man's first son may have been illegitimate,  as his wife Borte was kidnapped by the Merkits shortly after their marriage.  As a consequence, this man's other children refused to accept Jochi as their ruler, and this man was succeeded by his third son, who himself was succeeded by Guyuk when he died in 1241.  FTP, name this father of Chagatai and Ogodei who died in 1227, the founder of the Mongol Empire.	Genghis Khan or Chingis Khan or Temujin or Temuchin	Genghis_Khan	True
1075	In Peruvian legend, it is associated with a deity named Coniraya who tricked the virgin deity Cavillaca by slipping her his semen in the form of a fruit she unknowingly ate.  The  Maori deity associated with it was named Marama, while an Aztec god associated with this, Tecciztecatl [tek-is-the-cah-tul], was also associated with slugs.  The Norse personification of it was the son of Mundilfari who was constantly harassed by Hati.  An Indian god of it was named Chandra, while the Chinese goddess of it was Heng O.  A Greek goddess of it was the daughter of Hyperion and Theia who fell in love with Endymion.  FTP, name this celestial body associated with Selene.	the moon (accept equivalents)	Aztecs	False
1076	"This man's most important work on ethics consists of parts dealing with the place of habit, impulse, and intelligence in the titular activity, and concludes with a discussion of the community as religious symbol.  This man's most important work on religion, his Terry Lectures, considers such topics as ""The Human Abode of the Religious Function.""  This man's most important work on epistemology opens with a chapter on ""Escape from Peril"" and considers the ""naturalization of intelligence"" and ""philosophy's search for the immutable.""  In addition to Human Nature and Conduct, A Common Faith, and The Quest for Certainty, he wrote about aesthetics in Art as Experience.   FTP, name this American philosopher, a 20th-century pragmatist who wrote Democracy and Education."	John Dewey	Intelligence	False
1077	"When Charles Griffes died, he was working on a festival drama based on writings by this author.  William Henry Bell titled his C minor symphony with this man's name, which also names an unfinished choral symphony by Granville Bantock.  Charles Stanford's Elegiac Ode is based on this man's work, as is George Crumb's song-cycle Apparition  and a 1983 cantata by Ned Rorem.  An 1899 overture by Gustav Holst is named for this man, and Holst also based his ""Ode to Death"" and ""The Mystic Trumpeter"" on this man's poetry.  Such works as Dona Nobis Pacem and the Sea Symphony by Ralph Vaughan Williams are also based on his writing.  FTP, name this American poet whose elegy for a president was set to music by Paul Hindemith."	Walt Whitman	Gustav_Holst	False
1078	Tilden measured it for elemental metals, and the labs of Atake, Hohen, and Olsen have all made recent measurements for fullerenes.  A 1907 paper by Drude disagrees with the ion rule devised by Neumann and Kopp, and described the phenomenon in terms of three quantum oscillators.  Joseph Black noted that it was roughly proportional to mass, although the effect of phonons is more pronounced around the Debye temperature, making the theory that the atoms of all simple bodies share the same value of this quantity less applicable.  It is measured in SI units of joules per kilogram Kelvin, though its measurement in calories per gram degree Celsius is also common.  FTP, name this property of a material that quantifies the amount of heat required to raise the temperature of a substance one degree compared to water.	"specific heat capacity (accept heat capacity before ""water"")"	Heat_capacity	True
1079	"One of the bloodiest battles in this nation's history occurred at Hauganes, and ended with the execution of Brandur.  The greatest and in fact only naval battle in this nation's history took place two years earlier, and was known as ""the Bay Battle."" The civil war in which those battles were fought also included a battle in which Gissur the White and Kolbeinn the Young proved victorious in 1238.  That period of conflict is known as the Age of the Sturlungs, which came to a conclusion with the signing of a so-called ""Old Covenant"" that put an end to this country's commonwealth, which had been founded in 930.  FTP, name this island nation whose current republic was established in 1944 after it achieved independence from Denmark, which is governed by the Althing."	Iceland	Denmark	False
1080	"There are no known copies of this man's Latin comedy Philologia.  This man's prose works include an attack on ""a man of high rank with no knowledge or virtue"" and the essay ""On His Own Ignorance and That of Many Others,"" which are among his four Invectives.  His more uplifting works include a set of three imaginary dialogues with Saint Augustine, On Contempt for the Worldly Life, and the autobiographical Letter to Posterity.  More famously, he wrote the biographies collected in On Illustrious Men and the poetry collection Triumphs, not to mention an unfinished epic about Scipio, Africa.  FTP, name this Italian poet whose Canzoniere contains many sonnets written to his love Laura."	Francesco Petrarch or Petrarca	Augustine_of_Hippo	False
1081	In 1997 Edwin Hall wrote a book about this work which discussed the inclusion of St. Margaret emerging from the belly of a dragon, which can be seen carved above the back of a chair, to argue that Erwin Panofsky's influential interpretations are too simplistic. Commissioned by its subject, a counselor to the Duke of Burgundy who made his money as a silk merchant, the year and the artist's signature can be seen above the mirror whose reflection depicts the artist himself.  That artist would go on to paint other famous portraits like The Madonna with the Chancellor Rolin. Filled with details like a lit candle, a little dog, and a pair of discarded clogs, FTP, identify this work that depicts a man dressed in dark heavy wool and a big hat holding the hand of his betrothed, a painting by Jan van Eyck.	The Arnolfini Wedding (or The Arnolfini  Marriage)	Jan_van_Eyck	False
1082	Signal transduction through this molecule is mediated by dimerization and binding to an unusual tetramerized tyrosine kinase receptor whose activity is inhibited in part by PTP-1B and enhanced by IRS-1. This molecule is activated upon excision of an internal 33-residue segment called the C peptide, levels of which can be assayed in the serum. This enzyme also stimulates dephosphorylation of Acetyl-CoA carboxylase during fatty acid synthesis, promoting formation of active polymer, and is also capable of stimulating glucose uptake into all cells except those of the liver and brain. Critical for stimulation of synthesis and inhibition of breakdown of metabolic fuels, FTP, name this enzyme produced by pancreatic beta cells, functions of which are opposed by glucagon, and whose functions are deficient in diabetes mellitus.	insulin	Enzyme	False
1083	"In the first book of a trilogy by this author, the protagonist bags Zenobia Brockelbanck and observes Reverend Colley's habit of urinating on the deck of the ship, and later undergoes a conversion after Billy Rogers escapes a charge of fellatio by charging his superior officers with ""buggery."" In addition to the Billy Talbot books, he wrote a book about Ha, Mal, and Lok, while another of his books describes the attempted murder of Nathaniel Walterson by a man who slowly dies on an ocean rock.  He is probably best known for a book based on Ballantyne's The Coral Island, in which the ""littluns"" and ""Samneric"" fear a mysterious beast. FTP, name this author of the naval trilogy Rites of Passage, Close Quarters, and Fire Down Below as well as The Inheritors, Pincher Martin, and the story of Jack, Ralph, and Piggy, Lord of the Flies."	William Golding	Lord_of_the_Flies	False
1084	"He used a melody by the father of his one-time girlfriend, Ernestine von Fricken, as the theme for his Symphonic Etudes. His first composition was another set of ""theme and variations"" on the name of Countess Pauline Abegg, while his later works for piano include the Scenes from Childhood and Carnival. He wrote four symphonies, the third of which is a work in five movements meant to depict Rhenish life. FTP, name this German composer who also wrote the Spring Symphony."	Robert Schumann	Symphony_No._3_(Beethoven)	False
1085	It gained power over Scania through the Peace of Stralsund, which was signed five years after the Peace of Wordingborg weakened its power in Denmark. That peace was the work of Waldemar IV, whose victories at Helsingborg and Wisby curtailed its dominance. Its last formal assembly was held in 1669, but it reached its apex much earlier, when its major kontors were at London, Bergen, and Bruges. FTP, name this association which centered at L?beck, a union of North German towns which worked together to regulate trade.	the Hanseatic League	Denmark	False
1086	One serious drawback to this method is its high sensitivity, as it tends to produce many false positives in an unclean lab. Used diagnostically in some introductory lab courses for the purposes of determining the orientation of an inserted gene, it is also used in site-directed mutagenesis and in quantitative measurement of a specific mRNA in tissue. Cooling is necessary for rehybridization and for attachment of the primers to the original or newly synthesized DNA strands, but near-boiling temperatures will still not denature a certain enzyme of Thermus aquaticus, commonly known as Taq [TACK]. FTP, name this technique developed for large scale amplification of DNA, first proposed by Kary Mullis in 1983.	polymerase chain reaction	DNA	False
1087	"His son Ravi has produced such albums as Moving Pictures and From the Round Box. The final studio album produced by his best-known group was 1965's Sun Ship, which appeared in the same year as the widely-derided Om and Kulu Se Mama. ""Number One"" and ""To Be"" appear on Expression, which was made from his final recording sessions prior to his death in 1967. Better known are such tracks as ""Naima"" and ""Countdown,"" which appear on his 1959 Giant Steps. FTP, name this tenor saxophonist whose other albums include My Favorite Things and A Love Supreme."	John Coltrane	Kind_of_Blue	False
1088	"In one of this man's poems, he remarks that the Naiad has been torn from her flood and the Elfin has been torn from the green grass, while the speaker has lost ""the summer dream beneath the tamarind tree."" Another of his poems mentions a group of marvelous shrines whose ""friezes intertwine / The viol, the violet, and the vine."" That poem begins by noting that ""Death has reared himself a throne"" in the titular ""City in the Sea,"" while another of his poems features a ""pilgrim shadow"" who advises a knight to travel ""over the Mountains / Of the Moon"" if he wants to ""seek for Eldorado."" FTP, name this poet who wrote about a maiden who lived ""in a kingdom by the sea"" in his ""Annabel Lee"" and about a bird who says ""Nevermore"" in ""The Raven."""	Edgar Allan Poe	The_Raven	False
1089	"In a posthumously published interview entitled ""Only a God Can Save Us,"" this man claimed that the coming of a new god was the only way for man to be saved from the nihilism of modern technological society. His critical analyses of previous philosophers include Plato's Doctrine of Truth and Kant and the Problem of Metaphysics. He explored the history of art in Poetry, Language, and Thought and his essay ""Letter on Humanism,"" while his more metaphysical works include What Is Philosophy? and Existence and Being. He is best known, however, for a 1927 work in which he tries to destroy the history of metaphysics through an exploration of a concept he labeled Dasein. FTP, name this author of Being and Time."	Martin Heidegger	Immanuel_Kant	False
1090	"He declared himself dictator through the ""Organic Decree of Dictatorship"" shortly after the Oca? convention. During his time spent in New Granada, he authored the Cartagena Manifesto, and he would later write his famous La Carta de Jamaica, in which he stated that ""the bonds that united us to Spain have been severed."" Following the battles of Boyaca and Carabobo, he would become president of Gran Columbia, but after the revolt of Jose Maria Cordoba and the separation of Venezuela from his country, he resigned and died one year later in 1830. Known as El Libertador, FTP, identify this South American leader, whose name inspired that of a country with its capital at La Paz."	Simon Bolivar	Venezuela	False
1091	"He hid in Franang's falls after fleeing a banquet where he used the phrases ""a bench ornament in times of war"" and ""a pisspot"" to describe a god of poetry and a god of the sea, respectively. In the guise of Thokk, he refused to shed a tear, dooming another god to the underworld. In a last-ditch effort to slow the work of a rime-giant, he took the form of a mare and coupled with the stallion Svadilfari. After eating the charred heart of Gullveig or Angrboda, he gave birth to Hel, the Midgard Serpent, and Fenrir. FTP, name this Norse trickster god of fire."	Loki	Meditations_on_First_Philosophy	False
1092	"In one of this man's poems, he describes ""Yesterday's news"" as ""more remote / than a cuneiform tablet smashed to bits"" and calls people ""buffoons,"" ""coyotes,"" and ""satraps."" That poem, ""Return,"" was published in an eponymous volume after he ended his tenure in a government post he described in his poem ""Vrindaban."" His love of free verse is seen in works like ""Same Time,"" ""Clear Night"" and ""A Draft of Shadows,"" while his attachment to the mythology of his home country is evident in ""The Broken Jar"" and ""Sun Stone."" He summed up his theories on poetry in The Bow and the Lyre, although he is better known for a prose work about his home country. FTP name this Mexican poet, the author of The Labyrinth of Solitude."	Octavio Paz	Coyote	False
1093	"Among this man's lieder are one on the murder of Murray and another on the poem ""Ivan."" This man's late piano works include a set of seven ""Fantasies,"" his Opus 116, and three sets of ""Klavierst?cke,"" though he is better-known for keyboard works like the two rhapsodies of his Opus 79. He wrote two sets of Gypsy Songs, his Opus 103 and 112, both of which reflect the influence Hungarian folk music had on his work. His first symphony is often called ""Beethoven's 10th,"" although his fourth and final one is better known. He used a German text for his Deutsches Requiem, which he dedicated to his mother, but he is better known for a set of songs written for the University of Breslau. FTP name this composer, perhaps best known for his Academic Festival Overture and a namesake lullaby."	Johannes Brahms	Piano_sonatas_(Beethoven)	False
1094	"Welsh author Rhys Hughes has recently published a book inspired by a series this man wrote for the newspaper The Critic. This man's protagonists include a secretary of a municipal library anxious to read a rare edition of The Arabian Nights' Entertainments, an Englishman with a vicious scar across his face, and a man given the appellation ""Chronometer"" before he dies from pulmonary failure. He was obsessed with the ideas of Heraclitus, as can be seen in a story about a man who worships a fire god and creates a man in his image, only to find out that he was created in a similar fashion. That story, ""The Circular Ruins,"" is featured in a collection that also contains stories like ""The Lottery of Babylon,"" ""The Garden of the Forking Paths"" and ""Pierre Menard, Author of the Quixote."" FTP, name this Argentinean writer of ""The Library of Babel,"" El Aleph, and the collection Ficciones."	Jorge Luis Borges	Heraclitus	False
1095	The smallest class of this phylum contains Chironex fleckeri, which contains poison that can be fatal to humans. The endoderm and ectoderm of members of this phylum are held together by a layer of gelatinous material called a mesoglea. A gastrovascular cavity serves as both a mouth and an anus in members, all of which exhibit radial symmetry. Members of class Anthozoa only have a polyp form, while members of class Hydrozoa have a polyp and medusa form. For ten points -- name this phylum, whose members include sea anemones, corals, and jellyfish.	Cnidaria	Cnidaria	True
1096	In Chinese myth, there were originally ten of these, but nine were shot down by the Divine Archer, Shen Yi. In Hindu myth, the young Hanuman saw it, thought it was a fruit, and tried to eat it. Visvakarma placed the god associated with it in his lathe and shaved off part of that god, then used the shavings to create Vishnu's discus and other weapons. Visvakarma did this because the god associated with it, Surya, was too bright. In Japanese myth, the goddess associated with it was washed out of the left eye of Izanagi. FTP, the Japanese goddess Amaterasu was associated with what luminous celestial body?	sun	Amaterasu	False
1097	The Lord Chamberlain refused a license for the second play he tried to publish because it contained Biblical characters. This slight led him to contemplate changing to French citizenship, and although he did not do so, that play was published in France the year before being released in England. In one of his plays, an illegitimate man named Gerald is torn between his father, Lord Illingworth, and his mother, Mrs. Arbuthnot. That play, A Woman of No Importance, appeared in 1893, two years before An Ideal Husband and a year after Lady Windermere's Fan. FTP, name this Irish author who also wrote The Importance of Being Earnest and The Picture of Dorian Gray.	Oscar Wilde	The_Picture_of_Dorian_Gray	False
1098	This body is home to an irregular eastward-moving cloud known as the Scooter which may represent a plume rising in its atmosphere, which also shows shadows from high level clouds on a lower opaque cloud deck. Its atmosphere is also home to the fastest winds of any planet in the solar system, as well as a reservoir of methane gas which absorbs red light, producing its distinctive coloration. One of its moons has the highest known eccentricity of any natural satellite, while its largest moon is the only large moon with a retrograde orbit, and has active cryo-volcanos. Home to the Great Dark Spot, FTP name this outermost gas giant orbited by Nereid and Triton.	Neptune	Triton_(moon)	False
1099	Jonathan Harr's new novel The Lost Painting describes the search for this man's The Taking of Christ. This man won early success with mythological portraits such as his Bacchus, whom he depicts in a toga holding a black ribbon, and a portrait of Cupid standing over a heap of musical instruments with his arrows in his right hand. It did not take long, however, for him to start painting hagiographical portraits, such as The Incredulity of St. Thomas and a large depiction of the beheading of St. John that now resides in a church on Malta, where he lived toward the end of his life. He is more famous for works like his Supper at Emmaus and a depiction of St. Paul having fallen from his horse. FTP, name this Italian painter, who was born Michelangelo Merisi and who is best known for his Calling of St. Matthew.	Caravaggio (accept Michelangelo Merisi before it is read)	Michelangelo	True
1100	"One section of this work is based on designs for costumes for children dressed as canaries that would have been featured in the ballet Trilbi. The second movement comes from a nutcracker in the shape of a gnome, while the fourth is dominated by a sustained bass that is heard constantly while the primary tune plays above. That movement, ""The Old Castle,"" accompanies such sections as ""Limoges - The Market,"" ""Bydlo,"" and ""Two Jews, Rich and Poor,"" each of which is accompanied by a promenade. The piece culminates with the penultimate movement, ""The Hut on Fowl's Legs,"" followed by ""The Great Gate at Kiev."" FTP name this suite based on a set of paintings by Victor Hartmann, a work of Modest Mussorgsky."	Pictures at an Exhibition or Pictures from an Exhibition	Pictures_at_an_Exhibition	True
1101	The artist of this work had doctors provide him with used parts of cadavers, on which he based a number of preparatory sketches known as his Severed Heads and Dissected Limbs. On the left sits a bearded man with curly, silver hair hunched over in pensive despair, his arm over a dead body clothed only in shoes. On the right is another body wrapped in cloth whose head disappears below the boundary of the painting. The center is dominated by a number of figures looking and reaching upward, culminating in a black man holding a red and white signal flag. FTP name this painting depicting the aftermath of the wreck of a ship carrying Algerian immigrants, a work of Theodore G?icault.	The Raft of the Medusa	The_Night_Watch	False
1102	"This man's latest novel is After Dark, set to be released in English in 2010. While watching a baseball game, he was suddenly inspired to write his first novel, Hear the Wind Sing. A translator has an asexual relationship with twin sisters named 208 and 209 in his second novel, Pinball 1973, which features the recurring characters ""J"" and ""The Rat."" Later novels include one about the subconscious of a human computer, Hardboiled Wonderland and the End of the World, and his most recently translated work, Kafka on the Shore, but he is best known for novels about a man in search of his cat and his wife and one about Japan in the 1960s. FTP, name this Japanese author of The Wind-Up Bird Chronicle and Norwegian Wood."	Haruki Murakami (accept names in either order)	Franz_Kafka	False
1103	This character proved his mettle at an early age by taking up a toy sword against a stool covered with a lionskin. This early promise was borne out in this hero's later deeds, such as snapping the neck of Cercyon and crushing the skull of the Crommyonian Sow. In later life, he lost part of one buttock after a failed attempt to abduct Persephone for his friend Pirithous. He fed Sciron to a monstrous turtle, tied Sinis to some pine trees, and beheaded Procrustes while traveling to Athens to meet Aegeus. FTP, name this Greek hero who abandoned Ariadne after she helped him defeat the Minotaur.	Theseus	Theseus	True
1104	"This author wrote about an insurance clerk named George Bowling in a novel published just before the outbreak of World War II, Coming Up For Air. In a book commissioned by Victor Gollancz for the Left Book Club, he wrote about the ""industrial wastelands"" of Lancashire and Yorkshire. In addition to The Road to Wigan Pier, he wrote about being shot in the throat and nearly captured as a member of the Workers' Party of Marxist Unity while fighting in the Spanish Civil War in his book Homage to Catalonia. His earlier books include the novel Burmese Days and the autobiographical Down and Out in Paris and London. FTP, name this English author whose better-known works include 1984 and Animal Farm."	George Orwell (accept Eric Blair)	George_Orwell	True
1105	Antonio Buero Vallejo wrote a play about this painting that shares its title. The most important commentaries on are those of Sir Kenneth Clark and Michel Foucault, whose take on it can be found in his book The Order of Things. The ceiling of the room in which it is set has two mounts for chandeliers that do not appear in the painting. In the rear are two large but unintelligible paintings above a mirror in which two people can be seen. In the right front corner stand two dwarves and a dog, while on the left stands the artist himself with a red cross on his chest, in the act of painting. In the foreground is the Infanta, surrounded by the titular servants. FTP, name this painting of the Spanish court by Diego Vel?quez.	Las Meninas or The Ladies in Waiting or La Familia de Felipe IV or The Family of Philip IV	Las_Meninas	True
1106	"He wrote about the fates of Sinfin Carrasco, Justino Perez, Roberto Lopez, and the rest of the ""crew"" who engaged in the titular fight in his ""Furious Struggle Between Seamen and an Octopus of Colossal Size,"" which along with ""Fear"" and ""We Are Many"" appeared in the volume Estravagario. He wrote poems to a ""fallen chestnut,"" a ""yellow bird,"" and ""laziness"" in his Elemental Odes, while his earlier works include poems about the battle of the Jarama River and one entitled ""The Magellan Heart."" Later in his career politics played a larger role in his work, as seen in book-length historical poems like Canto general and a work based on his visit to an Incan city in the nation north of his own, ""The Heights of Macchu Picchu."" FTP, name this author of Twenty Love Poems and a Song of Despair, a Nobel laureate from Chile."	Pablo Neruda (or Ricardo Eliecer Neftal?Reyes Basualto)	W._H._Auden	False
1107	"It mentions people who ""in humorless protest overturned only one symbolic pingpong table."" Other figures in this work include the ""Chinaman of Oklahoma,"" people who ""journeyed to Denver,"" ""died in Denver,"" and ""came back to Denver and waited in vain,"" and others who ""ate fire in paint hotels or drank turpentine in Paradise Alley."" Another passage refers to people who ""sat through the stale beer afternoon in desolate Fugazzi's, listening to the crack of doom on the hydrogen jukebox."" This work is dedicated to a man who met its author while both were at the Columbia Psychiatric Institute, Carl Solomon. FTP, name this poem that begins ""I saw the best minds of my generation destroyed by madness,"" a work by Allen Ginsberg."	Howl	Howl	True
1108	One of this man's works features a painter named Einar, his wife Agnes, and a gypsy girl named Gerd who mades fun of the titular priest. Many of this man's title characters are clergymen, including one that vows to cure the world of sickness after a half-gypsy girl invites him to her mountain church of ice and another that commits suicide after falling in love with Rebecca West. Several creators appear in his works as well, such as the sculptor Arnold Rubek in When We Dead Awaken and Oswald Alving in Ghosts, although best known is Halvard Solness, the title character of The Master Builder. FTP, name this author of such dramas as An Enemy of the People, Hedda Gabler, and A Doll's House.	Henrik Ibsen	Hedda_Gabler	False
1109	"Headmaster Michael and Nancy attempt to modernize a rural village run by a traditional priest in this man's short story ""Dead Men's Path."" He only wrote two volumes of stories, The Sacrificial Egg and Girls at War, while his sole collection of poetry was entitled Beware. He is better known for his novels, whose protagonists include the writer-slash-journalist Ikem and the chief priest of Ulu, Ezeulu. Those novels, Anthills of the Savannah and Arrow of God, take a backseat to this man's two novels about a hunter and his civil servant son. FTP name this author of an influential essay on race in Conrad's Heart of Darkness and the novels No Longer at Ease and Things Fall Apart."	Chinua Achebe	Chinua_Achebe	True
1110	In one of this man's novels, the main character is visiting his aunt Mrs. Failing when he learns that he has a half-brother, Stephen Wonham. Later, that main character marries Agnes Pembroke but dies before his story collection Pan Pipes can achieve fame. In his first novel, Philip arrives in Italy too late to prevent his sister Lilia from marrying a dentist named Gino Carella. In addition to The Longest Journey and Where Angels Fear to Tread, this man wrote about the love of George Emerson and Lucy Honeychurch in 1908's A Room with a View. FTP, name this English novelist who also wrote Howards End and A Passage to India.	Edward Morgan Forster	A_Room_with_a_View	False
1111	"For fifteen years, she edited the Journal of American Folklore. Her doctoral dissertation was on ""The Concept of the Guardian Spirit in North America,"" and she wrote poetry under the name Anne Singleton. She used the Dobu and Kwakiutl as examples in one of her books and published the critique of scientific racism, Race: Science and Politics. After the U.S. entered World War II, this author of Zuni Mythology and Patterns of Culture was recruited by the Office of War Information as a consultant. FTP, identify this anthropologist who never went to Japan but wrote The Chrysanthemum and the Sword."	Ruth Fulton Benedict [accept Ruth Fulton]	The_Chrysanthemum_and_the_Sword	False
1112	"At the end of Chapter 27, ""Of Crimes, Excuses, and Extenuations,"" the author compares various crimes against ""private men,"" noting that mutilation of a limb is worse than spoiling a man of his goods. Chapter 16 considers ""persons, authors, and things personated,"" and children, fools, and madmen cannot be authors of their own actions. Chapter 9 offers a table which divides up the ""several subjects of knowledge,"" while other chapters in the first part, ""Of Man,"" deal with sense, imagination, and speech. The fourth and final part considers the ""kingdom of darkness,"" while a commonwealth is the subject of the middle books. FTP, name this book which posits a ""war of all against all"" in the state of nature, where life is ""solitary, poor, nasty, brutish, and short,"" a work written by Thomas Hobbes."	Leviathan, or the Matter, Form, and Power of a Commonwealth Ecclesiastical and Civil	Leviathan_(Hobbes_book)	False
1113	"English author David Garnett claimed this man taught him to sail using a laundry hamper with sails made of sheets. He defended his homeland in the essay ""The Crime of Partition,"" and his ethnicity is shared by the peasant Yanko Goorall, the protagonist of his short story ""Amy Foster."" Other short stories of his include interactions between whites and ""natives,"" such as ""An Outpost of Progress"" and ""The Lagoon."" Despite forays into drama such as Laughing Anne and One More Day, he is best known for novels, such as the story of Heyst and Lena, Victory, the tale of Captain Anthony and Flora, Chance, and the story of Mr. Verloc, The Secret Agent. FTP, name this Polish-born creator of the character Marlow, the author of novels like Nostromo, Lord Jim, and Heart of Darkness."	Joseph Conrad [or J?ef Teodor Konrad Korzeniowski]	Heart_of_Darkness	False
1114	The Kucherov reaction uses it to hydrate acetylenic hydrocarbons in the presence of a boron trifluoride catalyst, and the Jacobsen rearrangement of polymethylbenzenes also makes use of it. With diphenylamine and acetic acid, it helps comprise the Dische reagent, and its reaction with zinc oxide causes the pigment zinc yellow to have that color. Originally produced by burning a certain element with potassium nitrate, one innovative way to manufacture it includes the brainchild of Peregrine Phillips, the contact process. Also known as oil of vitriol, for 10 points name this strong acid found in car batteries with chemical formula H-2-S-O-4.	sulfuric acid [or H2SO4 or (oil of) vitriol before mentioned]	Zinc	False
1115	"He remarked upon the sin of sloth in the essay ""Nearer, My Couch, to Thee"" and expounded upon technology in ""Is it OK to Be a Luddite?"" In one of his short stories, Cleanth Siegel induces Irving Loon to go on a shooting spree by uttering the word ""Windigo,"" and another short story by this man follows Nathan ""Lardass"" Levine. These stories, ""Mortality and Mercy in Vienna"" and ""The Small Rain,"" can be found in his 1984 collection Slow Learner, which also features the story ""Entropy."" The female ninja DL Chastain helps Prairie Wheeler on a quest to find her mother in Vineland, while Reverend Wicks Cherrycoke narrates the story of an astronomer and a surveyor in Mason and Dixon. Best known for characters like Oedipa Maas and Tyrone Slothrop, his most well-known work opens ""a screaming comes across the sky."" FTP, name this reclusive author of V, The Crying of Lot 49, and Gravity's Rainbow."	Thomas Ruggles Pynchon Jr.	Gravity's_Rainbow	False
1116	In one of his works, Lenny and Joey hit on Ruth soon after she visits the home of her husband Teddy, who in the end decides to leave Ruth to his family so that they can turn her into a prostitute. In another of his works, Aston offers the title position to a tramp named Davies, but later Aston and his brother Mick turn against Davies and throw him out. In addition to The Homecoming and The Caretaker, he wrote about the plight of an unemployed pianist named Stanley in a 1958 work that appeared shortly after his first play, The Room. FTP, name this British dramatist of The Birthday Party, who recently won the 2005 Nobel Prize for Literature.	Harold Pinter	Ruth_Benedict	False
1117	"Defects in these objects can cause Kearn-Sayre Syndrome or Luft Disease. They contain porins to allow for passive diffusion of selected molecules through their outer membranes. They provide evidence for Margulis' endosymbiotic theory and are important to evolutionary and genetic studies due to their derivation solely from the mother. They allow some ribosomes in their matrix to allow for processes such as chemiosmosis and the citric acid cycle. FTP, name these organelles whose primary function is to convert organic materials into ATP, the so-called ""powerhouses"" of the cell."	mitochondria	Adenosine_triphosphate	False
1118	The composer of this work created it after abandoning a work about Cinderella, and later commented that he should not have composed it as it paled in comparison to Debussy's Sylvia. The title locale is formed from the tears of the central female character's parents after she is kidnapped by an evil sorcerer, whose enchantment can only be broken by a pledge of fidelity from a prince. That sorcerer tricks the prince into pledging his fidelity to Odile, who is Rothbart's daughter. In most versions, Odette then dies or is condemned to remain away from Siegfried in the form of the titular creature. FTP, name this first ballet by Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky.	Swan Lake or Lebedinoje osero	Swan_Lake	True
1119	"He wrote about some photographs taken by Roy DeCarava in the book The Sweet Flypaper of Life, while he wrote about his decision to take a job as a messboy on a freighter in his autobiographical The Big Sea. His first book featured seven sections, the last of which, ""Our Land,"" includes the poem ""Mother to Son."" That book was followed by 1927's Fine Clothes to the Jew, while later volumes of poetry included Fields of Wonder and Shakespeare in Harlem. FTP, name this author of Montage of a Dream Deferred and The Ways of White Folks who wrote ""The Negro Speaks of Rivers."""	Langston Hughes	William_Shakespeare	False
1120	In 2001, researchers at Lawrence Berkeley Labs discovered it in an aluminum matrix doped with molten lead. A mathematical description of this Wiener process typically begins with the Langevin equation and the Stokes flow for a sphere. Jean Perrin provided evidence for the most famous formulation of this process, for which, in the limit of small times, the rms displacement is proportional to the time squared. In the large time limit, it is a diffusive process which can be described by the Fokker-Planck equation and it has a diffusive constant proportional to the temperature. Observed by its namesake in pollen grains suspended in water, and explained by Einstein using the kinetic theory of gases, FTP name this random motion of small particles in a fluid.	Brownian motion	Brownian_motion	True
1121	"Works during this man's Serialist period include the choral work The Dove Descending Breaks the Air and Threni along with a piece commemorating the poet Dylan Thomas. Early in his career he wrote songs such as ""The Fairy's Kiss"" and The Faun and the Shepherdess along with a popular concerto for orchestra known as Fireworks. His operatic works include the one-act work Rossignol and an opera about Nick Shadow with a libretto by W.H. Auden, The Rake's Progress, but he is better known for his Psalm Symphony and ballets like Petruschka. FTP, name this Russian composer of The Rite of Spring and The Firebird."	Igor Stravinsky	W._H._Auden	False
1122	"In molecular spectra, an analogue of this phenomenon causes a mixing between the rotational and vibrational levels of a molecule, and in electrodynamics, an analogous quantity appears as a compensatory factor known as the Christoffel voltage. Its interaction with pressure gradients is the cause of geostrophic motion, and an object moving only under its influence will describe an ""inertial circle."" The reason why cyclones can't form at the equator, it directs the direction of rotation of hurricanes. For ten points, identify this force seen in a non-inertial reference frame which is proportional to the cross product of the angular frequency and the velocity."	Coriolis force or effect	Coriolis_force	True
1123	This god's eyes were the sun and the moon, and thus at the new moon he was blind. This caused problems at a battle where he started indiscriminately cutting off people's heads without knowing whose side they were on. This god's four sons were depicted on the lids of canopic jars, protecting the viscera after mummification. In one form, he was associated with the horizon, and syncretized with Ra as Ra-Harakhte. He engaged in a protracted struggle to avenge his father against his uncle, the evil god Set. FTP, name this Egyptian god of war often depicted as the falcon-headed son of Isis and Osiris.	Horus or Heru	Ra	False
1124	"During his lifetime, this man withdrew essays he had written on ""impudence and modesty"" and ""the immortality of the soul,"" while allowing such essays as ""Of the Dignity or Meanness of Human Nature"" and ""Of the Populousness of Ancient Nations"" to remain in print. Better known are such essays as ""Of Superstition and Enthusiasm"" and ""Of the Standard of Taste,"" which appear in his Essays Moral, Political, and Literary. In his autobiographical ""My Own Life"" he describes his ""retreat in France,"" which was spent at Reims and La Fleche, where he composed his first major work, a book whose three parts consider the understanding, the passions, and the morals. That book ""fell dead-born from the press,"" according to this man, though he had more success with later works like An Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding. FTP, name this British thinker who wrote A Treatise of Human Nature."	David Hume	An_Essay_Concerning_Human_Understanding	False
1125	This man's woodcuts include a procession of ten blocks known as The Triumph of Christ and the enormous Crossing of the Red Sea, and his woodcut of St. Jerome is one of the first examples of chiaroscuro. He was commissioned by Mary, Queen of Hungary, to paint a series of four mythological portraits known as the Furias which resembled his earlier ceiling frescoes for the Santo Spirito in his hometown. One of his first commissions was for the two altarpieces of St. Maria Gloriosa dei Frari, one of which is known as the Pesaro Madonna. While in Ferrara he painted mythological works such as Bacchas and Ariadne, while he later traveled to Urbino and did a portrait of a reclining nude. Perhaps best known for a painting done in honor of a 1514 wedding, FTP name this Venetian painter of Venus of Urbino and Sacred and Profane Love	Titian or Tiziano Vecellio (accept either)	Venus_of_Urbino	False
1126	"An opera of this name by Ferruccio Busoni shares the same basic plot as the more famous one, although it includes a part for Truffaldino as chief eunuch. The chorus of peasants is very prominent in the better-known version, in which they sing ""Gira la Cote"" in the first act. Toward the beginning of Act Two, courtiers sing about their country estates in ""Ho una casa nell'Honan,"" then lament the need to prepare simultaneously for weddings and funerals. Act One ends with ""A, Per l'ultima volta!"" in which the peasants attempt to warn the protagonist, who rings a gong three times. The protagonist is then asked three riddles after the title character sings ""In Questa Reggia,"" and having solved them, in Act Three he sings the triumphant ""Nessun Dorma"" in defiance of the title character. FTP name this opera about Calaf and a Chinese princess, the last opera by Puccini."	Turandot	Turandot	True
1127	The death of Grischa, who never appears onstage, catalyzes the events of this play.  One of the characters turns down a lucrative position at a bank in favor of a life spent munching candy and contemplating imaginary billiards shots.  Another, the protagonist's neighbor, is constantly in debt and sells his land to clay miners. The servant Dunyasha hopes to marry Yasha but is threatened with betrothal to Simple Simon.  The tutor Trofimov is in love with the daughter of the central character, whose governess Charlotte does magic tricks at the ball in Act 3.  That ball is eventually crashed by Lopakhin, who announces he has bought the title estate at auction from Madame Ranevskaya.  FTP name this play by Anton Chekhov, whose title entity is eventually cut down.	The Cherry Orchard or Vishnyovy sad	The_Cherry_Orchard	True
1128	This god was responsible for turning both the Teumessian vixen and the hound Laelaps to stone.  In the Homeric Hymn to this figure, he is said to have fathered the Horae on Themis.  He humbled Aphrodite by causing her to fall in love with Anchises, and adjudicated the dispute between Aphrodite and Persephone over Adonis.  The old couple Baucis and Philemon showed hospitality to this god and one of his sons, who served as the messenger of the gods and carried the caduceus.  FTP, name this Greek god who slept with Maia to produce Hermes, one of many extramarital affairs that angered his wife, Hera.	Zeus	Hermes	False
1129	In 1996, Andre Lalande's class notes from this man's philosophy course at the Lycee de Sens were recovered and used to reconstruct the lectures. John Cuddihy states that there are forty-five references to the Pentatuch in his first major work, completed in 1893. In comparing the Pentateuch to the Twelve Tables, he argues that as a society gets more advanced, the individual is more pronounced and society less homogenous. That argument appears in his Division of Labor in Society, and in 1897, he divided another phenomenon into four types: egoistic, altruistic, anomic, and fatalistic. FTP, name this French sociologist and author of Suicide.	David Emile Durkheim	Suicide	False
1130	Its use was especially prevalent in the kingdom of Cush, who made Meroe a cente of its production, while Roman sources report that the Gauls were also extraordinarly skilled in techniques for its use. It was apparently well-known in Rome itself from the beginning of the city, as their most ancient priest, the flamen dialis, was forbidden even to touch it, probably due to its association with bloodshed. It was first extensively employed by the Hittites, who found a way to make it more shatter-resistant by the art of tempering or quenching. For 10 points name this material whose greater strength and penetrating power soon led to weapons made of it supplanting those of bronze.	iron	Rome	False
1131	"In one of this man's works, a young musician boards the boat of an elderly helmsman only to become the helmsman himself.  That story, ""Flute Dream,"" is one of this man's many fairy tales, which include ""The Dwarf"" and ""Dream of the Gods.""  His actual short stories include one about the Chinese poet Han Fook and another concerning Friedrich the rationalist and his friend Erwin, ""Within and Without."" Longer works include a novel about a student artist's relationship with an intellectual Monk and another about Emil Sinclair's relationship with the title character, Max Demian.  Better known are a novel about Joseph Knecht's transformation into Magister Ludi, master of the title competition, and another about the misadventures of Harry Haller.  FTP, name this German author of The Glass Bead Game and Steppenwolf."	Hermann Hesse	The_Glass_Bead_Game	False
1132	Its tenth ruler ordered that solar temples and houses for acllas be built in Tumi Pampa, Hatun Colla, and Charcas. Originating in the village of Pagari-tampu, it extended its influence under Yupanqui, and the earliest date that can be assigned to its timeline is 1438, when Pachacuti Yupanqui usurped the throne from his brother Urcon. Under its eighth ruler, Viracocha, it first instituted its policy of establishing permanent garrisons among the conquered, which included such peoples as the Chacanas, the Chimu, and the Quechua. The death of Huayna Capac resulted in civil war between Huascar and his brother, and this empire collapsed when its last emperor was captured at Cajamarca. FTP, name this South American empire whose last ruler was Atahualpa and which was destroyed by Francisco Pizarro.	Inca empire or Tiwantinsuya	Atahualpa	False
1133	"In 1993, Jean-Claude Malgoire produced a completed reconstruction of this man's lost opera about Montezuma.  The bulk of his work is only known through the library of the Durazzo family, whose existence was revealed to Dr. Alberto Gentili in 1926.  His other operas include Arsilda, Queen of Pontus, Bajazet and an oft-performed adaptation of Orlando Furioso.  Juditha Triumphans is his only surviving oratorio, but he is better known for his 73 sonatas and over 500 concertos, four of which he accompanied with his own poetry.  FTP name this baroque composer, nicknamed ""The Red Priest,"" best known for a work composed of Spring, Summer, Autumn, and Winter sections."	Antonio Vivaldi	Piano_sonatas_(Beethoven)	False
1134	The Soave equation modifies it with the addition of an acentric factor, which is also included in another modification, the Peng-Robinson equation. Another modification was proposed by the scientist who proposed an explanation for the critical point as well as stating the law of corresponding states.  At higher densities, corrections to it are given by the virial expansion. Another correction is the Redlich-Kwong equation, which includes a term proportional to the inverse one half power of the temperature. High temperature, low pressure situations give the best agreements with the predictions of this equation, which implicitly contains Avogadro's law.  Derived from Charles' law and Boyle's law, FTP name this simple equation of state, typically given as PV equals RT.	"the Ideal Gas Law (accept Redlich-Kwong before ""Peng-Robinson"", or van der Waals before ""critical point"")"	Boyle's_law	False
1135	"His piano works include an ""interlude"" dedicated to his friend Jeanne Behrend and a nocturne which pays homage to John Field.  His Opus 26 Piano Sonata was commissioned by Irving Berlin and Richard Rodgers, and the premiere was performed by one of the work's principal advocates, Vladimir Horowitz.  Horowitz also premiered this man's Excursions for piano, which incorporate boogie-woogie and blues into classical forms.  He composed his Second Symphony while serving with the Army Air Corps in World War II, and his other orchestral works include Music for a Scene from Shelley, the Essays for Orchestra, and the Overture to The School for Scandal.  FTP, name this American composer of Vanessa, Medea and the Adagio for Strings."	Samuel Barber	Piano_sonatas_(Beethoven)	False
1136	The genetic disease hydrops fetalis is characterized by formation of the Bart type of this molecule.  Perutz proposed that it consists of two stable conformational states.  Carbamates formed with its N-terminal amino acids can regulate binding by this molecule whose non-protein component requires the synthesis of delta-aminolevulinic acid in reticulocytes.  Thalassemias result from decreased or absent synthesis of one its four chains, while one of its most common disease-causing mutations is a glutamate to valine mutation at position 6 of the beta chain.  Regulated by levels of BPG and the Bohr effect, FTP identify this oxygen-carrying protein in red blood cells that is mutated in sickle cell anemia patients.	hemoglobin	Amino_acid	False
1137	JPEGs are compressed using the discrete transform of this name, which separates the image pixels into bands of similar importance.  A correlation representing this function, also known as uncentered correlation, is used in pattern recognition and information retrieval to determine the similarity of two feature vectors via a normalized dot product. Its hyperbolic form describes the shape of a catenary, and for two vectors of unit length, taking a dot product will give you this function of the angle between them.  The reciprocal of the secant function, FTP, name this trigonometric function, which, for an angle in a right triangle, equals the ratio between the adjacent side and the hypotenuse.	cosine	Triangle	False
1138	"This man wrote ""First was the world as one great cymbal made / Where jarring winds to infant Nature played"" at the beginning of his poem ""Music's Empire."" He instructed the reader to ""see with what simplicity / The nymph begins her golden days"" in his ""Picture of little T. C. in a prospect of flowers."" He wrote that when Juliana comes, she ""What I do to the grass, does to my thoughts and me"" in ""The Mower's Song,"" and noted that the mind annihilates ""all that's made / To a green thought in a green shade"" in ""The Garden."" In his best-known poem, he noted that at his back he always hears ""Time's winged chariot hurrying near."" FTP, name this English poet who wished he had ""world enough and time"" in ""To His Coy Mistress."""	Andrew Marvell	To_His_Coy_Mistress	False
1139	Anders Angstrom employed this man's namesake resonance theory to conclude that an incandescent gas emits light of the same frequency which it absorbs. He gives his name to a set of polynomials which are functions of the Bernoulli numbers, and to a function which counts all the positive integers less than and relatively prime to the argument. The general equations of motion can be derived from a differential equation named for this man and Langrange. His namesake formula relates trigonometric functions to complex exponentials. FTP, name this mathematician whose namesake constant is the base of the natural logarithm.	Leonhard Euler	Logarithm	False
1140	One of this hero's rampages was stopped when a troop of topless women forced him to avert his eyes, which had seven pupils apiece. He stood alone against an invading army commanded by a queen noted for her friendly thighs while his countrymen suffered from a curse which made them feel the pangs of birth. He was doomed after breaking a geis by eating dog meat given to him by the Morrigan. He used the gae bolg to kill his friend Ferdiad and his son Connla despite the protests of his wife Emer. Known for defending Ulster during the Cattle Raid of Cooley, FTP name this Irish hero, born Setanta, who acquired a new name after killing the hound of Culainn.	Cuchulainn (accept Setanta on early buzz)	Cú_Chulainn	False
1141	At one point in this novel, an old woman reveals herself to be the daughter of Pope Urban X and the Princess of Palestrina. That revelation occurs on a boat headed to Paraguay, where the protagonist hopes to be able to fight some rebellious Jesuits. The protagonist recovers a jewel-laden sheep from the wreck of a Dutch merchantman, the money from which he uses to bribe the police in Paris. After their ship is wrecked off the coast of Portugal, the protagonist and his companion have to swim to Lisbon just as the city is hit by a massive earthquake. Eventually, the protagonist finds his way to Constantinople, where he liberates the old woman and Cunegonde from slavery. FTP name this short satire about the misadventures of Dr. Pangloss and the son of Baron Thunder-ten-tronckh, a work of Voltaire.	Candide	Lisbon	False
1142	"A Jewish student nicknamed ""mask-face"" is absorbed into the jungle tribe known as the Machiguengans in his novel The Storyteller. The story of a group of boys enrolled in a military academy including ""The Poet,"" ""The Slave"" and ""Boa"" is told in The Time of the Hero, while the title event takes place between Santiago and Ambrosio in Conversation in the Cathedral. Better known are his novel about a brothel in a jungle village, The Green House and a novel about revolution in late 19th-century Brazil, The War of the End of the World. Best known, however, is his novel about Mario, a radio journalist and writer who marries one of the title characters, a woman who admires the screenplays of Pedro Camacho. FTP name this Peruvian politician and author of Aunt Julia and the Scriptwriter."	Mario Vargas Llosa	Aunt_Julia_and_the_Scriptwriter	False
1143	"His fantasia on Weber's Euryanthe is lost, though his fantasias on Ernani and Norma are extant. His only opera of his own was Don Sanche, although he composed a number of melodramas including Lenore and Love of the Dead Poet. Sacred choral music like Christus and St. Elizabeth was well-received, as were his secular cantatas Titan and The Four Elements, but he is better known for his piano music. His piano compositions for four hands include Les Preludes, but better known are his Transcendental Etudes and a set of 19 compositions on his home country, the 15th of which is the ""Rakoczy March."" FTP name this piano virtuoso, composer of Liebestraume, the Faust Symphony, and the Hungarian Rhapsodies."	Franz Liszt	Carl_Maria_von_Weber	False
1144	"The Vinegar Tasters is a painting that depicts the relationship between this religion and the others prevalent in its time. The three pure ones, known as great, upper, and jade, are said to be manifestations of its founder, while its followers view the year in three epochs, each with its own ruler that resides in the North Star. A prominent symbol in this faith is the octagram, each point of which represents one of the Eight Immortals who dwell in grottos in heaven. Although a god known as ""The First Principle"" is more commonly worshipped, the supreme god is Yu-Huang, the Jade Emperor. FTP name this religion, now followed more as a philosophy, which was founded by Lao Tzu."	Daoism or Taoism	Taoism	True
1145	An important technique for probing the free electron density of the interstellar medium makes use of the dispersion measure associated with observations of these objects. A binary system containing one of these objects was discovered by Taylor and Hulse, who shared a Nobel for the discovery. The lighthouse model is sometimes used to illustrate the effects of the misalignment of their rotational and magnetic axes, including the generation of beamed synchrotron radiation which appears to blink at a very steady frequency. The central object of the Crab Nebula and LGM-1, discovered by Jocelyn Bell, are examples of, FTP, these magnetized, rapidly rotating neutron stars.	pulsar	Crab_Nebula	False
1146	"The sequel to this book points out the similarity of its author's views to those of Carveth Read and Francis Howe Johnson in its preface, and includes essays on ""the existence of Julius Caesar"" and ""the tigers in India."" That sequel concludes with a ""dialogue"" which discusses such questions as whether there is a truth even in cases in which it shall never be known. That book, The Meaning of Truth, appeared in 1909, two years after this book appeared. This book includes a contrast between ""tender"" and ""tough"" types of religion in its last chapter, and features chapters on ""the one and the many"" and on ""the present dilemma in philosophy."" FTP, name this work which argues that the true is the ""good in the way of belief,"" a work subtitled ""a new name for some old ways of thinking"" which shares its name with an American philosophical school and was written by William James."	Pragmatism	Truth	False
1147	"Stage directions in one of this man's dramas instruct the title character, an aging monarch, to stand up and fall over repeatedly ""in the manner of a tragic Punch and Judy show."" The title character of that play, Exit the King, is Berenger, which is also the name of the protagonist of this man's play set in the Radiant City, The Killer. Most of this man's plays have barebones sets and few characters, such as one set in a circular room in a circular tower that houses the plays three characters, the Old Man, the Old Woman, and the Orator,and another whose sole characters are the professor, the pupil, and the maid. The Chairs and The Lesson are less known, however, than two other plays, one whose title character ""always wears her hair in the same style"" and another most of whose characters transform into the title kind of creature. FTP name this absurdist playwright of The Bald Soprano and The Rhinoceros."	Eugene Ionesco	Rhinoceros	False
1148	At one point in this novel, while stranded in the north midland moors, the protagonist adopts the surname Elliot after meeting St. John Rivers and his sisters Mary and Diana. The protagonist is initially in the charge of Mrs. Reed, who sends the protagonist to Lowood School after she becomes ill and is nursed back to health by Bessie Leaven. At Lowood she is well-liked by Mrs. Temple, who helps her secure a teaching job, but instead she decides to become a governess working under Mrs. Fairfax. Her only pupil as a governess is an abandoned daughter of a French dancer, Adele Varens, who is the ward of the tenant of Thornfield. Her time at Thornfield ends when she sees a crazy woman rip her bridal veil and finds out that the woman is Bertha Mason, Mr. Rochester's wife. FTP name this book by Charlotte Bronte.	Jane Eyre	Jane_Eyre	True
1149	He once kicked Yama to death, making everyone immortal for a time. He also beheaded his father-in-law Daksha, then gave him a goat's head. At the request of Bhagiratha, he agreed to break the fall of the goddess Ganga with his hair. His wife once saved him by strangling him after he caught the secretions of the serpent Vasuki during the churning of the oceans, turning his throat blue. Cursed by the sage Bhrigu to be worshipped in the form of the phallic lingam, FTP name this father of Ganesha and husband of Parvati, often called the destroyer.	Shiva; or Siva	Ganesha	False
1150	The equilibrium value calculated from it is used in the chord-conductance equation, and its namesake is paired with Planck as the creator of a molar flux equation. Derivable from both the equation linking free energy change to reaction quotient and by the assumption that drift and diffusion are equal and opposite in its namesake's current density equation, it can be obtained from the Goldman-Hodgkin-Katz voltage equation in the case of only one ion. Useful in concentration cells, its importance comes in the case of nonstandard cell potentials. Including Faraday's constant and the charge of the ions involved, FTP, name this central equation of electrochemistry, named for the winner of the 1920 Nobel Prize in Chemistry.	Nernst equation	Arrhenius_equation	False
1151	"This poet wrote ""Without a name or history I wake / Between my body and the day"" in his poem ""Prime,"" and asked ""What does the song hope for?"" in his poem ""Orpheus."" He noted that the ""crack in the tea-cup opens / A lane to the land of the dead"" in ""As I Walked Out One Evening,"" while his ""Lullaby"" begins with the lines ""Lay your sleeping head, my love / Human on my faithless arm."" One of his most famous works features four ""bucolics"" from various countries who meet in a bar during World War II, whlie another begins by noting that ""About suffering they were never wrong, / The Old Masters"" in the course of describing a painting about the fall of Icarus. FTP, name this British poet of ""Mus? des Beaux Arts"" and The Age of Anxiety."	Wystan Hugh Auden	Orpheus	False
1152	In Chapter 7 of this novel, the protagonist meets Mr. Crenshaw and a vet who is being transferred to St. Elizabeth's. In a later chapter, the protagonist witnesses the death of Tod Clifton, who has abandoned his idealist cause to sell paper dolls. Earlier, the narrator is turned away by Mr. Emerson and gets a job mixing Optic White paint under the supervision of Lucius Brockway. As the novel begins, we learn that the narrator has disguised himself to escape a riot led by Ras the Destroyer, after which he reminisces about a blindfolded wrestling match and his time at a nameless, segregated Southern university. FTP, name this novel by Ralph Ellison.	Invisible Man	Invisible_Man	True
1153	After he defeated the Solymians by dropping boulders on them, he overcame a group of Carian pirates led by Cheimarrhus. After completing these missions, he killed an ambush group sent by a king of Lycia, who later gave his daughter Philonoe in marriage to this man. After this son of Glaucus of Corinth was falsely accused of trying to seduce Stheneboea or Anteia, he was sent on a mission to kill a daughter of Echidna. He was given the task because Proetus had asked Iobates to kill him, but he won through with the help of a piece of lead attached to a spear, and a flying mount. FTP, name this hero who killed the Chimera while riding on Pegasus.	Bellerophon	Bellerophon	True
1154	"His most notorious publication is likely the article ""Distortions at Fourth Hand,"" in which he apologized for the Khmer Rouge, and he also wrote the preface to a book by Holocaust denier Robert Faurisson, claiming that he was defending the principle of free speech. His assault on B.F. Skinner's theories helped to initiate the cognitive revolution in psychology, and his namesake hierarchy ranks the expressive power of formal languages, a concept important in automata theory. His ""principles and parameters"" approach to language acquisition posits the existence of a universal grammar, and he believes that grammar is transformational and generative. FTP, name this linguist and polemicist, author of the scientific Syntactic Structures and political Imperial Ambitions."	Noam Chomsky	B._F._Skinner	False
1155	"The protagonist of this novel gains favor with the emperor after dancing the ""Waves of the Blue Sea"" and reciting some of his poetry, but is almost ruined when he impregnates Fujitsubo, the emperor's concubine. The protagonist also messes around with Utsusemi and Yugao, much to the dismay of his wife, Princess Aoi. Fortunately, she dies at the end of the novel, so that the title character can marry his young ward who shares her name with the novel's author. FTP, name this 11th-century Japanese novel by Lady Murasaki Shikibu."	The Tale of Genji or Genji monogatari	The_Tale_of_Genji	True
1156	They are divided into two classes based on the ratio of the penetration depth to the coherence length, a quantity known as the Ginsburg-Landau parameter. Alexei Abrikosov discovered his namesake vortex lattice in one type, and the London equation describes a characteristic behavior of these materials similar to perfect diamagnetism. A complete theory of the type I variety of these substances, including the concept of the pairing of opposite-spin electrons over long distances, is known as the BCS theory. Discovered by Heike Kammerlingh-Onnes, FTP, identify these substances which exhibit zero electrical resistivity.	superconductors (accept superconductivity)	Lev_Landau	False
1157	"His philosophy was shaped by his time in the von Gerlach circle, with whom he collaborated on a column in the Kreuzzeitung. As a representative to the Erfurt Parliament in 1849, he denounced unification as ""a putrid brew of sentimentality,"" and he later negotiated the Three Emperors League, launched the Kulturkampf, and altered the Ems Telegram. He warned that ""the great questions of the day will not be setteld by speeches and majority decisions...by by blood and iron."" After the success of his realpolitik in the Franco-Prussian War, he was elevated to Chancellor of the new German Empire. FTP, name this Prussian diplomat."	Otto Eduard Leopold, F?rst von Bismarck, Graf von Bismarck-Sch?nhausen, Herzog von Lauenburg	Franco-Prussian_War	False
1158	"In Woody Allen's short story The Kugelmass Episode, the title character is transported through a cabinet in Brooklyn to the estate of this novel's title character. In Chapter 21, the protagonist buys a riding whip from Lhereux [loo-roo], and presents it to another character along with a scarf and a seal reading ""Amor nel cor."" At the end of the novel, one character is awarded the Legion of Honor, while Berthe, the daughter of the title character, is sent to live with an aunt who makes her work in a cotton mill. The wily pharmacist Monsieur Homais inadvertently provides the title character with the arsenic she uses to kill herself, after she racks up debts and is spurned by her former lover, Rodolphe Boulanger. FTP name this Gustave Flaubert novel about the wife of Charles, Emma."	Madame Bovary	Madame_Bovary	True
1159	"Benedetto Croce wrote a book discussing ""what is living and what is dead in the philosophy"" of this man, while a book on this man and ""the rise of social theory"" which appeared in 1941 attacked the idea that his philosophy contained the seeds of fascism. In the 1790s this man wrote essays on ""The Positivity of the Christian Religion"" and ""The Spirit of Christianity and Its Fate,"" which were influenced by his theological studies at T?bingen. The three terms for which he may be best known were in fact invented by Heinrich Chalyb?s in 1837, six years after this man died while working as a professor of philosophy at Berlin. He tried to offer an account of any necessary concept in his Science of Logic, while he considered the relation between human thought and the real world in his Encyclopedia of the Philosophical Sciences. FTP, name this German thinker who wrote the Philosophy of Right and The Phenomenology of Spirit."	Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel	The_Phenomenology_of_Spirit	False
1160	"This man's A Sentry for Four Years includes a quartet inspired by the aria ""I am so wonderful"" from Beethoven's Fidelio. Beethoven's influence is also apparent in the first movement of his First Symphony, which quotes that composer's The Creatures of Prometheus. He wrote a composition mixing the cantata, oratorio and opera genres entitled Lazarus, number 689 in the Deutsch catalog. His 4th Symphony was his first to be written in a minor key, and is nicknamed ""Tragic."" His final symphony in C major may have been his 7th, though it is commonly numbered his 9th. FTP name this composer of Lieder such as ""Gretchen am Spinnrade"" and ""Erlkonig"" along with the ""Great"" and Unfinished Symphonies."	Franz Schubert	Symphony_No._5_(Beethoven)	False
1161	For simpler cases, it has an outside term expressed as the product of the transmission coefficient, Boltzmann's constant, the reciprocal of Planck's constant, and temperature, although it is often expressed with a delta-G-plus-plus. Statistical mechanics is necessary to determine the orientation of collisions that allows calculation of its frequency factor, which is usually based on its steric factor z. Taking the logarithm of both sides is also useful, as it illustrates a linear dependence between the natural log of k and the reciprocal of T. FTP, name this equation relating activation energy and thus rate constant to temperature, named for a Swedish chemist.	Arrhenius equation	Arrhenius_equation	True
1162	"He wrote an economic history of Roman agrarian society and a tract on the dual roles of idealism and materialism in Economy and Society. His vershtehen doctrine said that researchers must interpret people's actions using ""ideal types"" to understand social and economic phenomena, and his dabblings in positivism signaled his split from Gustav von Schmoller. He also studied the workings of bureaucracy and gave the Freiburg Address. His trademark work describes how Calvinist values, especially dedicating oneself to his duties, resulted in greater economic productivity. FTP name this author of The Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism."	Max Weber	Max_Weber	True
1163	"Types of these objects include the Reissner-Nordstrom variety and the most general type, known as the Kerr-Newman variety. Their namesake ""no hair"" theorem states that they can only posess mass, charge, and angular momentum. A process for extracting rotational energy from these objects by utilizing the properties of their ergospheres was outlined by Roger Penrose, who showed that each of them must contain a singularity. The Schwarzschild radius is associated with, FTP, what class of objects so massive, even light cannot escape?"	black holes	Angular_momentum	False
1164	He fought his first duel against an opponent whose heart was a sharp-edged, triangular stone. That opponent carried as his weapon a large hone, and was accompanied by Mist Calf, a man of clay nine leagues tall which pissed itself with fear at the approach of this god, then died quickly at the hands of this god's errand-boy Thialfi. He accepted Hrungnir's challenge after Hrungnir lost a horse-race to this god's father, who rode a stallion with eight legs. Stuck under Hrungnir's leg until he was free by his son Magni, FTP name this Norse god who killed Hrungnir with Mjolnir, his hammer.	Thor	Henry_Clay	False
1165	"In a petition included in the third printing, the author claimed that ""the duty of comedy is to correct men by amusing them."" Near the beginning of Act Two, the father tries to convince his daughter to marry the title character, who is insulted in the opening scene of the play by Dorine and Damis as Madame Pernelle hurries to leave in exasperation. Of course the daughter, Mariane, actually loves Valere, but Orgon is so taken with the titular character that he deeds all his property to him. Elmire, Orgon's wife, finally exposes the true intentions of the titular character of, FTP, what 1664 comedy by Moliere whose name is now synonymous with religious hypocrisy."	Tartuffe	Tartuffe	True
1166	"He stated ""Two names there are,"" one of which is ""That which the Hebrew reads / With his soul only,"" the other of which is ""Shakespeare,"" in his sonnet ""The Names,"" while he began the sonnet ""Now"" with the line ""Out of your whole life give but a moment!"" Such poems as ""The Flight of the Duchess"" and ""Home Thoughts from Abroad"" appear in his Dramatic Romances and Lyrics, which also includes ""The Bishop Orders His Tomb in St. Praxed's Church."" His first work was a ""fragment of a confession"" entitled Pauline, and he went on to write works about Sordello, Paracelsus, and such artists as Fra Lippo Lippi and Andrea del Sarto. FTP, name this British poet of The Ring and the Book and the dramatic monologue ""My Last Duchess."""	Robert Browning	My_Last_Duchess	False
1167	This man's sole venture into chamber music, his String Quartet in E Minor, was first performed in the foyer of the Hotel delle Crocelle. He was originally lined up to compose the opera Froufrou, with libretto by Meilhac and Halevy. He wrote a number of operas after the works of Friedrich Schiller, including I Masnadieri from The Robbers and Luisa Miller from Cabal and Love, while his Jerusalem was a continuation of his earlier work I Lombardi. After his proposal for an opera based on King Lear failed, he composed A Masked Ball which was shortly followed by The Force of Destiny. Many of his best-known operas feature prominent choral numbers, such as one sung by Hebrew Slaves, two sung by Gypsies and another sung by priestesses of Ptah. FTP name this prolific Italian composer of operas such as Rigoletto, La Traviata and Aida.	Giuseppe Verdi	Rigoletto	False
1168	"In Haruki Murakami's novel Hardboiled Wonderland and the End of the World, the protagonist reads a novel by this man about an impoverished nobleman during his convalescence at home. Many of his earlier works, like the autobiographical ""First Love,"" appeared in The Contemporary, for which he served as an editor. Like Hemingway, he wrote a novel called The Torrents of Spring, and his fascination with Shakespeare is evident in his story Hamlet of the Schigrovsky District. His dramas include The Lady from the Provinces and A Month in the Country, but he is better known for novels like Smoke and Virgin Soil. FTP name this Russian author of A Sportsman's Sketches and Diary of a Superfluous Man who is best known for his novel centered around the nihilist Bazarov, Fathers and Sons."	Ivan Turgenev	Fathers_and_Sons_(novel)	False
1169	An attempt to impose this religion in Armenia led to the battle of Avarayr. Much of its modern form developed thanks to the efforts of Kartir, the minister of cults under Shapur I. Shapur's predecessor Ardashir I had made it the state religion of the empire he founded, in a throwback to an earlier empire in the same region. The Vendidad requires extreme ritual purity including sky burial, although more traditional death lore involves a confrontation at the bridge of Cinvat (Chin-vat) and being hanged upon a tower after death to be eaten by birds. The Gathas are the only part of the Avesta written by this religion's eponymous founder. FTP identify this dualist religion of Ancient Persia that worships the god Ahura Mazda.	Zoroastrianism (accept Mazdaism before eponymous founder).	Zoroastrianism	True
1170	"This affair led to the Supreme Court's decision of McGrain v. Daugherty, which upheld the ability of Congress to compel testimony. Made possible by Edward Denby's transfer of responsibility, it was investigated by Robert La Follette and Thomas Walsh. One facet centered on Edward Doheney's $100,000 interest free ""loan"" for the administration of land in Elk Hills, California. The investigation uncovered that Harry Sinclair of Mammoth Company gave $300,000 to the Secretary of the Interior, Albert Fall. FTP, name this scandal over Wyoming oil reserves that rocked the Harding administration."	Teapot Dome	Teapot_Dome_scandal	True
1171	Application of this effect to cycles of sunspots allowed George Hale to determine the law of sunspot polarities. In its general form, the electron charge times the vector potential over the speed of light must be subtracted from the momentum. Spherical symmetry is destroyed in its strong variety, known as the Paschen-Back limit. It breaks the degeneracy of the Coulomb potential, and the weak limit yields energy spacings proportional to the magnetic quantum number. First observed as the broadening of the D-lines in the solar spectrum, for ten points, identify this effect in which spectral lines are split by the application of a magnetic field.	Zeeman Effect	Sunspot	False
1172	"The discussion of trees in this work includes sections on the death of Kostrubonko and the Whitsuntide Mummers.  A song about a bastard son of Midas named Lityerses who would kill strangers after forcing them to help him gather the harvest is discussed in the section on the Corn-Spirit.  The soul is considered as a ""shadow and a reflection"" and as a ""mannikin"" in a chapter on the ""perils of the soul,"" while another chapter considers sharp weapons, blood, spittle, and hair as ""tabooed things.""  The book begins by asking ""Who does not know Turner's picture"" of the titular object, and then describes the grove of Aricia where a certain ceremony once took place.  The author initially wanted only to understand the rule which regulated the succession of the priesthood of Diana, but ended up writing twelve volumes.  FTP, name this work whose title refers to a branch removed from a sacred tree by Aeneas, which was written by Sir James Frazer."	The Golden Bough	Midas	False
1173	"His minor poems include a mock-pastoral in which the loss of Grildrig is lamented by Glumdalclitch and a ""proper new ballad"" in which the ghost of George Sandys mocks contemporary translators of Ovid.  His ""miscellanies"" include a poem addressed to Mr. John Moore, ""author of the celebrated Worm-Powder,"" and one addressed to Miss Blount along with a copy of the works of Voiture (vwa-tour).  His ""translations and imitations"" include versions of the first book of Statius's Thebaid, an updating of The Temple of Fame, and Sappho to Phaon, while his earlier works include a ""sacred eclogue"" written in imitation of Virgil's Pollio, The Messiah.  He wrote poems ""to Lord Bolingbroke"" and ""to Dr. Arbuthnot"" as parts of his Imitations of Horace.  FTP, name this English poet of Eloisa to Abelard and The Rape of the Lock."	Alexander Pope	Sappho	False
1174	"In one of his short stories Alexander the Great's horse Bucephalus appears as a lawyer.  A cobbler wonders when the Emperor will drive some nomads away in ""An Old Manuscript,"" while the narrator of another story describes his eleven sons.  The protagonist of one of his stories cannot stay in Riva because he is on a boat that is driven by the wind that blows in the undermost regions of death, as he tells the Burgomaster.  In addition to ""The Hunter Gracchus,"" this man wrote stories about Josephine the Singer, a country doctor, and an elderly bachelor named Blumfeld, though he's better known for a story about a diabolical machine.  FTP, name this author of ""A Hunger Artist"" and ""In the Penal Colony,"" who may be best known for a work about Gregor Samsa."	Franz Kafka	The_Metamorphosis	False
1175	In one of his most famous drawings, one of the title figures wears a cap and holds a brush while the other stands behind him and looks interested in his work.  In one of his paintings, a street is thronged with people walking on stilts, rolling hoops, sitting on barrels, and engaging in other forms of the titular activities.  In addition to The Painter and the Buyer and Children's Games, he produced drawings to be engraved by Hieronymous Cock, such as Big Fish Eat Little Fish.  His later works include The Magpie on the Gallows, while his religious works include The Procession to Calvary and The Adoration of the Kings.  His light-hearted works include The Battle Between Carnival and Lent and the Peasant Wedding, while he was more severe in The Triumph of Death.  FTP, name this Flemish artist of Landscape with the Fall of Icarus.	Pieter Breugel the Elder	Fish	False
1176	"This author speaks of the grave as ""the bed Christ did perfume"" in a poem that begins ""as weary pilgrim, now at rest.""  The speaker of another poem by this author stands ""close by the banks of Lacrim flood"" and overhears a dialogue between the ""the flesh and the spirit.""  This author concluded that time would be the ""fatal wrack of mortal things"" whereas God would ""last and shine when all of these are gone"" in the 33rd and final section of the long poem ""Contemplations,"" and wrote a series of poems on such gripping subjects as ""The Four Seasons of the Year,"" ""The Four Humours,"" and ""The Four Ages of Man.""  Better known are two poems to a loved one who was ""absent upon publick employment"" and verses upon the burning of her house, which took place on July 10th, 1666.  FTP, name this author of The Tenth Muse Lately Sprung Up in America."	Anne Bradstreet	Elegy_Written_in_a_Country_Churchyard	False
1177	He spent the last years of his life in Sicily, where he wrote a work about the founding of Syracuse, Women of Etna.  In his first competition he lost to Pratinus and Choerilus, but the contest was so exciting that the theater benches collapsed under the weight of the spectators.   He wrote 97 plays in all, the earliest surviving one of which depicts the flight to Argos of the fifty daughters of Danaus.  In another of his plays, two brothers fight to the death before the walls of Thebes, while he sympathized with Queen Atossa in The Persians. FTP, name this first of Athens' great tragic dramatists, who wrote Seven Against Thebes, Prometheus Bound, and the Oresteia.	Aeschylus	Thebes,_Greece	False
1178	He periodically plays chess with Gaston Godin and obtains sleeping pills from Dr. Byron, using them to keep his second wife under control.  His first wife Valeria left him for a cabdriver, with whom he has an unproductive discussion of Jean Christophe.  All of this is related in his manuscript, which is edited by C.C. Clark and John Ray Jr and which was written during his time in prison for the murder of Clare Quilty.  He had committed that murder because Quilty had lured the young Dolores Haze away from him.  FTP, name this man who had an affair with the titular nymphet in Vladimir Nabokov's Lolita.	Humbert Humbert	Lolita	False
1179	The Sellmeier equation is an empirical relation describing the dependence of this quantity on wavelength.  In left-handed materials, which have negative values of this quantity, the group and phase velocities point in opposite directions.  Given by the square root of the product of the relative permittivity and permeability, for most materials it is approximately equal to the square root of the dielectric constant.  FTP, name this quantity, equal to the speed of light over the local phase velocity, which appears in Snell's Law.	"index of refraction (or refractive index; prompt on ""n"")"	Speed_of_light	False
1180	"In his most homoerotic painting, a nude boy hugs a brown and white cat, though some prefer the sexual energy captured in his portrait of the seated painter Bazille.  His paintings of major European landmarks characterized his so-called ""Dry Period,"" which he followed up by exhibiting with Les Vingt (lay van), a group of modern artists based in Brussels.  The Montmartre model Nini was the subject of his At the Theater and The Theater Box, which also featured his brother Edmond.  However, he would abandon his Impressionist style with the masterpiece The Umbrellas.  FTP, name this oversexed French painter of such group scenes as Le Moulin de la Galette and Luncheon of the Boating Party."	Pierre Auguste Renoir	Luncheon_of_the_Boating_Party	False
1181	Extrasolar ones may be found by the cosmic ray detector AUGER (pron. oh-ZHAY) via horizontal air showers.  Because they were not warmed by electron-positron annihilation, they should have a 2 Kelvin blackbody background spectrum. Photomultiplier tubes can be used to detect Cerenkov radiation produced by these particles interacting with electrons in heavy water and pure water detectors such as the Sudbury Observatory and Super Kamiokande detector.  FTP, name these leptons which can oscillate between three flavors, and have no charge and nearly no mass.	neutrinos	Cosmic_ray	False
1182	"Its failure to unify against the hostility of Richard II and the Merchant Adventurers was the first sign of its decline.  Its greatest enemy used Kampen and the towns of the Zuider Zee as a lure to split it in two and co-opt the Livonian cities, but they rebelled and joined with their Wendish rivals in the Confederation of Cologne to recover the fortress of Halsingborg and rights to trade through the Oresund.  The Peace of Stralsund confirmed its victory over Waldemar Attedag, despite his sack of Visby in 1361.  First formed to facilitate trade along the Kiel ""salt road,"" FTP, name this medieval group of merchant associations from Lubeck, Hamburg, and other north German cities."	Hanseatic League or the Hansa (or: die Hansetage)	Hanseatic_League	True
1183	"It is depicted ""by moonlight"" in an 1885 work by Hercules Brabazon Brabazon, and is shown at ""night"" by Canadian painter James Wilson Morrice.  Michele Marieschi lived here until 1735 and painted numerous capriccios of places in it.  A man in black talks to a woman wearing a black shawl and a pink dress on a ""street"" in this city in an 1880 painting by John Singer Sargent.  It appears ""at dusk"" in a 1908 painting by Claude Monet, which features its Church of San Giorgio Maggiore.  It was painted many times by Turner, who depicted the Rialto and a scene ""looking toward the Dogana"" that shows the Grand Canal.  FTP, name this Italian city which also appears in many paintings by Canaletto."	Venice	Claude_Monet	False
1184	"The title of one of his novels refers to the nickname given to Miu after she mentions that she is reading Jack Kerouac.  Another title refers both to an illness that affects Siberian farmers and a song by Nat King Cole that has always fascinated Hajime (hah-gee-may).  In one of his most popular novels, the protagonist's best friend commits suicide by inhaling carbon monoxide from his motorcycle, while the girl he loves develops mental problems and hangs herself.  In addition to Sputnik Sweetheart and South of the Border, West of the Sun, this man's novels include one in which Toru Watanabe is prompted to reflect on his youth by hearing the Beatles song ""Norwegian Wood.""  FTP, name this author of After the Quake and The Wind-Up Bird Chronicle, one of Japan's most inventive contemporary novelists."	Haruki Murakami	Jack_Kerouac	False
1185	Building on the kinetic theory of gases, it was originally formulated by J.J. Hood, although its namesake later provided a true theoretical basis for it.  The collision frequency Z is only weakly dependent on temperature, while the steric factor P is always less than one.  Taking the logarithm of both sides allows it to be put in a linear form, which proves to clearly illustrate the dependence of the rate constant on temperature and, of course, on activation energy.  FTP, name this equation of chemical kinetics, named for a Swedish scientist.	Arrhenius equation	Arrhenius_equation	True
1186	Antonio de la Ascension, who kept a journal for Sebastian Vizcaino, claimed that it was an island with its very own Mediterranean Sea. This image, perpetuated for over a century by mapmakers such as Briggs, Sanson, Blaeu, and Speed, may owe something to the literary origins of the name as an island inhabited by Amazons in a fifteenth-century romance by Garci Ordonez de Montalvo.  Father Eusebio Kino's travels confirmed that it was not, in fact, an island, but it was Juan Bautista de Anza who made the first overland journey here, a trek to resupply the missions founded by Junipero Serra. FTP, give the geographic term now applied to the gulf also known as the Sea of Cortes and the peninsula of Baja.	California	Atlas_Mountains	False
1187	"The ""War of a Thousand Days"" between Liberal Rafael Uribe and Conservative Rafael Nunez left this nation too weak to resist an imperialist threat to its territory.  Alfonso Lopez Pumarejo's ""Revolution on the March"" gave land rights to the squatters, but failed to bring stability. Laureano Gomez's attempted introduction of fascism was a reaction to the last stages of the conflict that had killed liberal leader Jorge Gaitan, known as the bogotazo or ""La Violencia.""  In colonial times, this former territory of the Chibcha Indians had been known as ""New Granada."" FTP, name this nation whose cities include Baranquilla, Cali, and Medellin."	Colombia	Colombia	True
1188	Feshbach resonances may be observed in these, since a further transition from the collective ground state is required to emit an electron, while Denschlag et al. observed macroscopic solitons in them in 2000.  Tonks-Girardeau gasses are examples of these aggregates, the first of which was created out of approximately 2000 Rubidium-87 atoms near 170 nanoKelvin in June of 1995.  Resulting from the collapse of bosons into the same ground state at finite temperatures, FTP, name this phase of matter predicted by two physicists, one of whom was German and the other Indian, in the 1920s.	Bose-Einstein condensate	Electron	False
1189	"In I. A. Richards's Practical Criticism, this author's poem about a piano is the cause of much confusion, as the students Richards surveyed condemn its alleged sentimentality.  This author noted that he was ""sick of lovable people"" in ""Elemental,"" and proposed to guide himself into the underworld with the aid of the titular flowers in ""Bavarian Gentians.""  His greatest poem concludes that the ""voyage of oblivion awaits you"" and enjoins the reader to build his own ""ship of death,"" an image which this author also explores in his travel book Etruscan Places.  His other non-fiction includes Reflections on the Death of a Porcupine, but he's best known for novels like Aaron's Rod and Kangaroo.  FTP, name this British author of The Rainbow and Sons and Lovers."	David Herbert Lawrence	Etruscan_civilization	False
1190	"When we first encounter this man, he goes out one afternoon in May for a walk which takes him to the Northern Cemetery of his home town, Munich.  He wrote a novel, The Abject, which ""taught a grateful generation that moral resolution was still possible after plumbing the depths of knowledge,"" and he is also the author of ""a discourse on the subject of Mind and Art"" which ranked with Schiller's Naive and Sentimental Poetry.  After indulging in some overripe strawberries, he goes to the beach and observes Jashu attack another child.  In the end, the world is shocked to learn that he died of cholera in an Italian city.  FTP, identify this character who falls in love with the Polish boy Tadzio in Thomas Mann's novella Death in Venice."	Gustav von Aschenbach	Death_in_Venice	False
1191	The first naval battle in this war was fought at Riachuelo, near the city of Corrientes, while ironclads were later used to destroy the fortress at Humaita and bombard the suffering capital of the losing party. Bartolome Mitre was replaced as commander-in-chief by the Duke of Caxias, who was forced to enroll slaves to increase the size of his armies.  Land cessions in the Mato Grosso and Gran Chaco resulted from this war, which was sparked by Brazilian intervention in the Uruguayan factional struggle of the Blancos and Colorados. FTP, identify this disastrous war fought by Francisco Solano Lopez, which decimated the male population of Paraguay.	War of the Triple Alliance	Paraguayan_War	False
1192	In one of his novels, the title character's parents have sex on Epiphany in 1992 so their child could be the first one born on Columbus Day.  The title character of another of his books is the niece of Senora Consuelo, who employs Felipe Montero to edit her late husband's memoirs.  In a 1967 novel, he wrote about a group of people who travel to Vera Cruz from Mexico City.  His second novel, The Good Conscience, followed a book that explored his country's pre-Columbian past, Where the Air Is Clear.  FTP, name this Mexican author of Christopher Unborn, Aura, and The Death of Artemio Cruz.	Carlos Fuentes	Mexico	False
1193	"The diagonal elements of the coupling matrix in an orthonormal n-energy-state system are fully perturbed matrix elements of this object.  Adding first-order relativistic corrections to the momentum naturally creates the fine-structure version of this operator, since it is equal to one over the twice the system mass times the inner product of the momentum operator with itself, plus the potential operator.  FTP, identify this operator, the operation of which on the wave function is equal to operation of the energy operator on the wave function according to the Schr?dinger equation, that is symbolized ""h-hat"" and that is named for a 19th Century Irish mathematician."	Hamiltonian operator or matrix (prompt on energy operator)	Momentum	False
1194	"Materials susceptible to this phenomenon generally lack inversion centers, and current research stems from its utility in MEMS sensors.  The inverse of this phenomenon is known as electrostriction and was demonstrated in the year following its discovery, and was shortly thereafter used in the first SONAR.  Discovered by analogy to Brewster's work with heat in the same context, this was discovered when, in 1880, tourmaline, quartz, topaz, and Rochelle salts were compressed by Pierre and Paul-Jacques Curie, who named the resulting effect from the Greek for ""squeeze.""  FTP name this effect, the evolution of a voltage across the face of a crystal in response to mechanical strain."	piezoelectricity (or piezoelectric effect)	Quartz	False
1195	"The state funeral of Napoleon prompted his painting War: The Exile and the Rock Limpet.  The following year he painted the popular The Opening of the Wallhalla and two didactic works on the ""evening"" and the ""morning after"" a ""Deluge,"" which were supposed to illustrate Goethe's theory of color.  Later in the 1840s he painted Queen Mab's Cave, The Angel Standing in the Sun, and a work which depicts the Great Western Railway.  He raised a ruckus in 1840 with a painting which shows a typhoon coming on as the dead and dying are thrown overboard by slavers, a work known as The Slave Ship.  FTP, name this English painter beloved of Ruskin, whose works include Rain, Steam and Speed and The Fighting Temeraire."	Joseph Mallord William Turner	Johann_Wolfgang_von_Goethe	False
1196	They can be formed from the reaction of a Gilman reagent with an acyl chloride and from the cleavage of a 1,2 diol with periodic acid.  The presence of the methyl variety of these organic compounds can be discovered with the iodoform test, and they can undergo the mixed Claisen condensation with an ester or have their alpha-carbon halogenated or alkylated, both of which are examples of the nucleophilic addition reactions they frequently undergo.  FTP, name these compounds with a carbonyl attached to two alkyl groups, whose simplest example is acetone.	ketones	Acetone	False
1197	His First Symphony premiered when he was only 18, though he passed it off as the work of a German composer to see what reception it would get.  He wrote two cello concertoes, the best known of which is the first in A minor, and three violin concertoes, the best known of which is the third in B minor.  A prodigious pianist, he wrote five piano concertoes, while the best known of his five symphonies is a C minor work which employs an organ.  His other symphonic works include the Algerian Suite, The Youth of Hercules, and Omphale's Spinning Wheel, as well as a tone poem in which xylophones represent rattling bones.  FTP, name this French composer of Samson and Delilah and the Danse Macabre.	Camille {Saint}-{Sa?s}	Danse_Macabre	False
1198	The isothermal pressure partial derivative of this state function is equal to the isentropic pressure partial derivative of the enthalpy; a fact useful in deriving Maxwell's relations.  It is constant along a coexistence line in a state diagram, and is logarithmically related to a reaction's equilibrium constant.  If the change in this quantity is negative for a reaction, the reaction is spontaneous; a zero change implies equilibrium.  Defined differentially as the maximum attainable work of an open system, FTP, identify this state function that may be simply defined as the enthalpy minus the product of temperature and entropy and that is named for an American scientist.	"Gibbs free energy (or Gibbs function or Gibbs potential function; prompt on ""free energy"" or ""G"" or ""g"")"	Enthalpy	False
1199	"This man's piano works include four Eclogues, the Theme with Variations in A flat, and a set of thirteen Poetic Tone Pictures, as well as a concerto in G minor.  His orchestral music includes a trio of suites entitled Nature, Life, and Love which includes a tone poem on Othello, and a set of four symphonic poems on works by Erben, including The Golden Spinning-Wheel and The Wild Dove.  His chamber music is better known, including 14 string quartets of which the twelfth is nicknamed the ""American."" This friend of Brahms wrote his most famous concerto for the cello, while his other works include The Water Goblin, the Dumky trio, and the ""Carnival"" overture, as well as sixteen Slavonic Dances. FTP, name this former butcher from Zlonice [ZLAH-nee-chay], Bohemia, whose Ninth Symphony in E minor is subtitled ""from the New World."""	Antonin Dvorak	Johannes_Brahms	False
1200	"He showed that monkeys intimadate each other visually rather than physically in his dissertation on ""dominance in the social and sexual behavior of infra-human primates.""  He turned his attention to industrial psychology in Eupsychian Management, while his late essays are collected in The Farther Reaches of Human Nature.  Dissastisfied with both behaviorism and psychoanalysis, he introduced a ""third force"" which came to be known as humanistic psychology.  His first major statement of his thought came in Motivation and Personality, while Toward a Psychology of Being set forth his mature views.  FTP, name this American psychologist who introduced the notion of peak experiences, along with self-actualization and his hierarchy of needs."	Abraham Maslow	Abraham_Maslow	True
1201	"Jan Palach set himself on fire to protest the failure of this movement, whose only short-term result was the federalism espoused by NAME Husak, who made an alliance of convenience with the hardliners. The attempted revival of the Social Democratic party, the churches, and the Boy Scout movement frightened the country's neighbors, but it was the publication of Ludvik Vaculik's ""Two Thousand Words"" manifesto in the Literary Gazette that spurred them to action.  Despite the conference of Warsaw Pact leaders at Cierna-nad-Tisou in Slovakia, tanks were sent to repress this move toward ""socialism with a human face,"" an initiative of Alexander Dubcek.  FTP, name this short-lived 1968 season of liberal reform in the Czech capital."	the Prague spring	Prague_Spring	True
1202	At the beginning of Act 3, Berta brings a letter into a room where two of the main female characters are sleeping.  At the beginning of Act 4, the title character learns from Juliane that Juliane's sister Rina has died.  Later in that act, the title character plays the piano after learning that another character shot himself accidentally in the chest, which wasn't quite the beautiful death he was supposed to experience.  The whole play transpires in the title character's living room just after she and her husband Jurgen return from their honeymoon, which she found tedious.  In the end, she kills herself after having an unpleasant conversation with Judge Brack.  FTP, name this play that also features Thea Elvsted and Eilert Lovberg, a work by Henrik Ibsen.	Hedda Gabler	Hedda_Gabler	True
1203	"His first book of poetry included epistles to George Felton Matthew and Charles Cowden Clarke, in addition to 17 sonnets addressed to such figures as Kosciusko, the author's brother George, and the painter Benjamin Haydon.  His third and last book of poetry, published three years later, included ""Lines on the Mermaid Tavern,"" ""Bards of passion and of mirth,"" and mentioned three longer poems in its title, starting with one in heroic couplets which was based on a passage from part 3 of Burton's Anatomy of Melancholy.  His second volume, published in 1818, consisted entirely of a ""poetic romance"" in four books about a shepherd from Latmos.  FTP, name this poet of ""Lamia,"" Endymion, and the ""Ode on a Grecian Urn."""	John Keats	Ode_on_a_Grecian_Urn	False
1204	The key step in the derivation of this statement is to realize that the forward and reverse partial current densities are equal in the relevant case and, therefore, that the term proportional to the logarithm of their ratio vanishes.  Its formulation leads to the idea of a concentration cell, since it indicates one can create both sides of a battery from the same materials, provided different concentrations are used in each side.  Probably most useful in determining unknown concentrations from a measured voltage, it states that the standard reference potential of an electrochemical cell is equal to the kinetic temperature divided by the total charge times the logarithm of the reaction quotient.  FTP, name this equation of electrochemistry, which is named for a German scientist who won the Nobel Prize for Chemistry in 1920.	Nernst equation	Logarithm	False
1205	Its first ruler wrote a memoir in the Chagatai language which includes discussions of his victories at Khanua and the Ghaghara River.  Although it reached its greatest extent with the conquest of Bijapur and Golconda, its economic decline can be traced to the shortage of assigned jagirs and the inflation of noble titles among the quarrelsome zamindar class. The subsequent period of religious intolerance provoked Rajput rebellion, the formation of a Maratha confederacy, and a short-lived but disastrous Persian invasion. This century of decay ended with Bahadur Shah II, exiled to Burma after his association with the mutineers of 1857.  FTP, name this early modern Indian empire ruled successively by Jahangir, Shah Jahan, and Aurangzeb.	the Mughal empire (or: Mogul empire)	Mughal_Empire	True
1206	The Schlosser modification of this reaction uses excess lithium salts, which stabilize the intermediate betaine created in the first step.  The betaine forms an oxygen-containing four-membered ring, which subsequently breaks up into the products.  A similarly named modification of this reaction stabilizes one of the reactants, forming the E form of the desired product almost exclusively.  Named after the winner of the 1979 Nobel Prize in Chemistry, FTP, name this reaction, which forms an alkene from the reaction of a carbonyl group with a compound known as phosphorane or an ylide.	Wittig reaction	Wittig_reaction	True
1207	"His first volume of short stories included one set on St. John's Eve, one set on Christmas Eve, and one set on a May night, the last of which is subtitled ""The Drowned Maiden.""    His second volume of short stories included ""Viy,"" ""Old-World Landowners,"" and a story about a quarrel between Ivan Ivanovich and Ivan Nikiforovich.  Though he used the pseudonym V. Alov to publish his first work, the narrative poem Hans K?chelgarten, he used his own name for Evenings on a Farm in Dikanka and Mirgorod.  His St. Petersburg Stories include tales about the madcap adventures of Collegiate Assessor Kovalev and Akakii Akakievich, who returns as a ghost to reclaim an article of clothing.   FTP, name this Russian author of The Inspector-General, ""The Overcoat"", and Dead Souls."	Nikolai Gogol	Ivan_the_Terrible	False
1208	"He controversially produced a setting of Shakespeare's 66th sonnet in his Six Romances to Words by English Poets.  His last major work was a Viola Sonata he finished editing days before his death, while his other late works include the Suite on Words of Michelangelo, four string quartets dedicated to each member of the Beethoven Quartet, and a Violin Sonata composed for David Oistrakh.  He wrote several ballets, including The Limpid Stream and The Golden Age, while he revised his best-known opera as Katerina Izmaylova, though it is better-known for the title which it shares with the Nikolai Leskov story on which it is based.  FTP, name this Russian composer of 15 symphonies, including ""Babi Yar"" and ""Leningrad."""	Dmitri Shostakovich	String_quartet	False
1209	"He argued that the media serve the needs of the powerful in his 1988 Massey Lectures, which were published as a book about ""thought control in democratic societies.""  He compared colonialist genocides with contemporary treatment of Third World nations in a 1993 book subtitled ""the conquest continues.""  In addition to Necessary Illusions and Year 501, a series of his interviews with David Barsamian have been published, including Keeping the Rabble in Line and The Prosperous Few and the Restless Many.  In one of his first ventures into political writing, he attacked the Vietnam War in American Power and the New Mandarins.  FTP, name this longtime professor at MIT and leftist agitator, who also did some work in linguistics."	Noam Chomsky	Vietnam	False
1210	"The first to liquefy chlorine, this scientist's namesake rotator is useful in optical isolators.  He discovered and named ""diamagnetism"" prior to his work in electrochemistry, where his namesake constant gives the number of coulombs in a mole of electrons.  He had to take five years off in the early 1840s due to headaches that may have been caused by mercury poisoning, but he came roaring back and gave an 1846 lecture on ""Ray Vibrations"" that became the basis for Maxwell's electromagnetic theory of light.  The discoverer of benzene, he argued that equal currents gave rise to equal amounts of decomposition, which summarizes his first law of electrolysis.  FTP, name this British scientist, best known for his work in physics indicating that a change in magnetic flux induces an electromotive force."	Michael Faraday	Benzene	False
1211	Energy band gaps in substances like vanadium cause this parameter to increase asymptotically near the critical temperature. The difference between its two types is proportional to the square of the thermal expansion coefficient and inversely related to the isothermal bulk modulus. The model for it as temperature approaches zero is the Debye T-cubed law, which assumes a continuous state distribution, an improvement on Einstein's quantum atomic oscillator model. Its limit is equal to 3 times the gas constant as given by the Law of Dulong and Petit. FTP, name this thermodynamic quantity, the amount of heat required to raise a mass unit's temperature by one degree centigrade.	heat capacity (accept specific heat?)	Temperature	False
1212	The Feynman disk paradox can be resolved by noting that the electromagnetic field is allowed to carry this property.  For light, multi-electron atoms, spectral details are correctly reproduced by Russell-Saunders coupling of this property of the electrons.  The Kerr metric is appropriate for describing black holes with a nonzero value for this quantity and zero charge.  The Bohr model of the atom proposes that this quantity is quantized in units of h-bar.  FTP name this quantity whose time derivative is the torque, given by the moment of inertia times the rotational velocity, which comes in orbital and spin subtypes.	angular momentum	Electron	False
1213	"After ending her lesbian relationship with Natalie Raymond, she took up with Ruth Valentine.  Her first book was an unfinished work called Adventures in Womenhood, which was to have considered ""new women in three centuries"" by profiling Olive Schreiner, Mary Wollstonecraft, and Margaret Fuller.  Another of her books was attacked by Congressman Andrew May, who denounced its assertion that some African-Americans were more intelligent than some whites, even if those whites were from Kentucky.  That book, Races of Mankind, was a collaboration with Gene Weltfish, written three years after she analyzed stereotypes in Race: Science and Politics.  In 1925 she became editor of the Journal of American Folklore, two years after publishing her The Concept of the Guardian Spirit in North America.  She discussed Apollonian and Dionysian configurations in her 1934 masterwork.  FTP, name this anthropologist who wrote The Chrysanthemum and the Sword and Patterns of Culture."	Ruth Benedict	The_Chrysanthemum_and_the_Sword	False
1214	His second opera was based on Ernst von Wolzogen's The Quenched Fires of Oudenarde, and ends with Diemut accepting the love of the magician Kunrad.  His first opera depicts a member of the Holy Society of Peace who saves Freiheld, the wife of the evil Duke Robert, from killing herself.  In addition to Feuersnot and Guntram, he wrote about the surrender at Breda in Friedenstag and about the love of Apollo for a daughter of Peneios in Daphne.  A composer named Flamand and the Countess Madeleine appear in his final opera, the one-act work Capriccio.  He wrote about the sister of Chrysothemis in a 1909 opera based on a play by Sophocles, while Zerbinetta and Bacchus appear in his Ariadne on Naxos.  FTP, name this German composer of Elektra and Der Rosenkavalier.	Richard Strauss	Richard_Strauss	True
1215	"His first surviving work for piano is a ""Bohemian Dance"" written when he was 17.  His last works for piano include ""To the girl dancing with antique cymbals,"" ""To invoke Pan, god of the summer wind,"" and four other Antique Epigraphs, as well as a Heroic Berceuse he dedicated to the king and people of Belgium and a ""Hommage to Haydn"" written for the centenary of the composer's death.  All three of his ballets, including Games and Khamma, were originally written as piano scores, and the first of his Etudes is written for five fingers after a work by Czerny.  He wrote musical depictions of an eccentric general named Lavine, Samuel Pickwick, and Delphic Dancers in his two books of Preludes for piano, while ""Pagodas"" and ""Night in Grenada"" are depicted in his Estampes.  FTP, name this French composer, whose other piano works include the Suite Bergamasque and a collection including ""Golliwogg's Cake-Walk,"" Children's Corner."	Claude Debussy	Piano	False
1216	"This individual is the subject of a 1785 singspiel by Friedrich Benda, while his ""fable"" is the subject of the most popular opera by Alfredo Casella.  A musical drama about this figure by Antonio Sartorio added such superfluous characters as Achilles, Bacchus, and the title character's brother Aesculapius.  The title character is raised to the heavens by Jove at the end of an opera about his ""death"" by Stefano Landi, whils six electronic interludes interrupt the narrative in a work called ""the mask of"" this character by Harrison Birtwistle.  The title character is mistakenly stabbed to death by his dead wife's three sisters in a work about his ""misfortunes"" by Darius Milhaud.  A more famous work about him first appeared in 1607, and opens in the fields of Thrace before moving to the underworld.  FTP, name this figure from Greek myth, the subject of works by Offenbach, Gluck, and Monteverdi."	Orpheus (or Orfeo, I suppose)	Claudio_Monteverdi	False
1217	"He warned a friend that ""man-woman is not woman-man"" in the poem ""On One Who Affected an Effeminate Manner.""  He asked one of the title figures to let his ""iron spanker"" fall on ""broker and banker"" in ""What Thor Said to the Bard Before Dinner.""  Auden greatly admired a poem he wrote about an ""Irish Legend"" of A.D. 700, ""The Voyage of Maeldune,"" though his more famous late poems include ""The Death of Oenone"" and ""Merlin and the Gleam.""  He imagined falling to sleep to a poem by Chaucer in ""A Dream of Fair Women,"" while he wrote about a ""lordly pleasure-house"" built on a ""huge crag-platform"" which would house his soul in ""The Palace of Art.""  More famously, he noted that ""After many a summer dies the swan"" in a poem about Tithonus.  FTP, name this poet of ""The Lotos-Eaters"" and ""Crossing the Bar."""	Alfred, Lord Tennyson	W._H._Auden	False
1218	In this work's second section, the mayu ni and dama ni systems among the clans of the Kachin are compared to the concepts of the bone and flesh in Tibetan society and the role of gift giving among peoples like the Lolo and Tungus.  That section examines Morgan's three stage model of social evolution along a Burma-Siberia axis.  Later, this evolution is extended to the Miwok structure of oblique marriage and the Murngin practice of sister exchange, though for more complex societies positive rules for the title concept break down, and only taboos remain.  FTP, name this work that proposes reciprocity in marital exchange with universal prohibition of incest as the means to forming the title hierarchies, the thesis that launched structural anthropology by Claude Levi-Strauss.	The {Elementary Structures of Kinship} or Les Structures ??entaires de la parent?	Lewis_H._Morgan	False
1219	"One of this thinker's essays begins by quoting the Monologue of Novalis and concludes by citing a text on the ""diversity of the structure"" of the titular concept by Wilhelm von Humboldt.  Another of his essays discusses the ""Lichtung,"" or clearing in the forest, in relation to a definition of truth as ""unconcealment"" which he takes from  Parmenides.  Yet another of his essays discusses C. F. Meyer's poem ""Roman Fountain"" and a painting of shoes by Van Gogh in order to understand the titular concept.  In addition to ""The Way to Language,"" ""The End of Philosophy and the Task of Thinking,"" and ""The Origin of the Work of Art,"" he criticized French appropriations of his thought in the ""Letter on Humanism"" and suggested that the modern world is enframed by scientific thinking in ""The Question Concerning Technology.""  However, he is best known for an unfinished book whose first part appeared in 1927, in which he discussed the nature of Dasein.  FTP, name this German author of Being and Time."	Martin Heidegger	Parmenides	False
1220	The protagonist is impressed by a performance of Thomas Corneille's The Count of Essex, but when he admires a play set in Arabia the person sitting next to him at the theater sets him straight about the work.  After losing money at a game of faro he overhears a discussion of a novel by Doctor Gauchat, while Madame de Parolignac mocks the works of Archdeacon T.  Later, a Venetian nobleman disparages the works of Horace and Milton, and complains that the Raphaels he owns are a bit too brownish.  The title character ends up in Constantinople, having spent time in Portugal and Paraguay in earlier portions of the book.  In the end, he enjoys the company of a dour philosopher named Martin and a loyal servant named Cacambo while living on his farm.  FTP, name this novel in which an endless stream of misadventures befalls Paquette, Cun?onde, and Doctor Pangloss, a work about optimism by Voltaire.	Candide	Pierre_Corneille	False
1221	The Maharajah of Indore commissioned him to design a Temple of Meditation to house his works, but it never got built.  If it had been built, it might have included works like his Vitellius and Head of Laocoon.  His last important work was Flying Turtle, while he created controversy with the phallic Princess X and the wooden The Prodigal Son.  One of his most important works was commissioned by his country's National League of Women, and includes the circular Table of Silence and a stylized version of a funeral pole, Endless Column.  The creator of such ovoid works as The Newborn and The Beginning of the World, he sculpted a famous funeral monument for the grave of a suicide in Montparnasse Cemetary.  FTP, name this creator of Mademoiselle Pogany and The Kiss, best known for his numerous bronze sculptures of a Bird in Space.	Constantin Brancusi	The_kiss	False
1222	"George Santayana wrote about the ""secret"" of this author in Dialogues in Limbo.   Fritz Mauthner wrote a critical book on him from a linguistic point of view, while in a book subtitled ""a chapter from the history of science"" his work was judged unfavorably by G. H. Lewes.  Lane Cooper wrote several books on this man's aesthetic philosophy, while major studies of him were written by George Grote, Werner Jaeger, and one of his most important English translators, W. D. Ross.  This thinker's ""short physical treatises"" include On Memory and Reminiscence and On Prophesying by Dreams, while his longer works include On the Heavens and On Generation and Corruption.  His logical works, including the Categories and the Prior Analytics, are collected in the Organon.  FTP, name this Greek philosopher who also wrote the Metaphysics and the Nicomachean Ethics."	Aristotle	George_Santayana	False
1223	"One of his aspects was a god of feasts known as ""Two Reeds,"" while another of his aspects was a god of the polar star who invented fire by using the heavens as a drill.  In one legend, his foot was bitten off by a sea-monster named Cipactli.  After Tata and Nene survived a great flood, their consumption of a fish angered this god, so he cut off their heads and stuck them on their asses, thereby creating the first dogs.  Earlier, he ruled over a race of giants before being struck into the sea, whereupon he devoured the giants and animal-like humans.  His wife was the hairy maize-goddess Xilonen, though he once seduced the flower goddess Xochiquetzal because he thought he would make a better companion for her than her husband.  A son of Coatlicue, he was god of the north, of material things, and of night.  FTP name this Aztec deity who carried an obsidian smoking mirror and is known for tempting men with evil."	Tezcatlipoca	Aztecs	False
1224	"His last instrumental work was a Phantasy for Violin with Piano Accompaniment, while his other late works include a string trio in one movement and a set of variations in G minor for band.  He wrote an oratorio based on Swedenborg's vision of heaven in Balzac's S?aphita in which six people are admonished by the archangel Gabriel, while his lighter works include the comic operetta From One Day to the Next, whose libretto was written by his daughter Gertrud.  One of his major works features a long duet that is interrupted after each verse by orchestral commentary and contains the solemn ""lament of the wood dove.""  That work is based on a poem by Jens Peter Jaconsen, and features King Waldemar and Tove, whose castle provides the name of the Gurrelieder.  He also wrote a Chamber Symphony in E major and a string sextet based on a poem by Richard Dehmel, Transfigured Night.  FTP, name this composer of Moses and Aron and Pierrot Lunaire."	Arnold Schoenberg	Violin	False
1225	These creatures come in three different body types known as the asconoid, syconoid, and leuconoid, all of which feature an exit system known as an osculum.  They also feature an area between the gelatinous protein matrix called the mesoglea or mesenchyme, an epidermis of flat pinocytes, and interior surfaces lined with choanocytes, or collar cells, that create currents.  Composed of four classes including Calcarea and Hex-acti-nel-lida, it is equivalent to the subkingdom Parazoa.  Most are hermaphrodites, and all adults are sessile suspension-feeding animals with radial or no symmetry.  FTP, name this invertebrate phylum whose members have a skeleton composed of spicules, which are commonly known as sponges.	"Phylum Porifera (accept sponges before ""Calcarea"")"	Sponge	True
1226	"This man discusses ""focalization"" as the fundamental fact of reasonable thought in an essay which wonders why dogs don't frame abstract ideas.  Another of his essays contends that to know an object is to lead to it through a context which the world supplies.  In addition to ""Brute and Human Intellect"" and ""The Knowing of Things Together,"" he argued that there is only one primal stuff in the world out of which everything is composed in order to answer the question ""Does 'Consciousness' Exist?""  He called for a survey of the limits of human power in his essay ""The Energies of Men,"" while his final essay was a tribute to the writer Benjamin Paul Blood, ""A Pluralistic Mystic.""  In better known essays, he considered the ""Mental Effects of the Earthquake"" that hit California in 1906 and discussed the ""moral equivalent of war.""  FTP, name this American philosopher who also wrote books about The Meaning of Truth and The Varieties of Religious Experience."	William James	An_Essay_Concerning_Human_Understanding	False
1227	Pius V issued Regnans in excelsis officially excommunicating this monarch, who a year earlier had put down the Northern Rebellion.  The duke of Alba was party to an assassination attempt against this monarch which was led by Roberto di Ridolfo, but its failure resulted in the execution of the duke of Norfolk.  She was advised throughout her reign by William Cecil and Francis Walsingham, the latter of whom uncovered the Babington plot to take her life, after which she executed her cousin.  FTP, name this Tudor queen, under whose rule the Spanish Armada was defeated, and who executed Mary, Queen of Scots.	Elizabeth I	Spanish_Armada	False
1228	"According to this poem when you ""Come to the window"" to smell the sweet night air, ""Listen! you hear the grating roar"" of pebbles that ""bring the eternal note of sadness in.""  ""Sophocles long ago"" heard what the speaker hears, and thought similar thoughts.  The view is also like ""The Sea of Faith,"" which now also ebbs.  FTP, name this poem in which the speaker finds neither joy, nor love, nor light, Nor certitude, nor peace, nor help for pain;"" but only ""ignorant armies clash[ing] by night,"" a poem by Matthew Arnold"	Dover Beach	Dover_Beach	True
1229	"This opera was a dud on opening night because of the extremely obese soprano, who was dying of an unknown disease.  In the complete version, the lead tenor rushes to Paris in Act II, responding to news that the title character has been selling her possessions so they can live in the country in ""O mio rimoroso!""   While he is away, his father Giorgio initiates a dialogue with ""Pura siccome un angelo,"" in which he explains that young Mr. Germont's relationship with the title character may jeopardize the chances of his sister marrying.  Despite admitting that she suffers from consumption, FTP, Violetta Valery leaves her lover Alfredo and later dies in what Verdi opera?"	La Traviata	La_traviata	True
1230	The Diels-Alder reaction involving 1,3-butadiene and this class's simplest compound produces 1,4-cyclohexadiene.  Adding ozone to them and then water produces carboxylic acids, while adding water in the presence of a mercury salt produces an enol which tautomerizes to form a ketone, and adding hydrogen in the presence of Lindlar's catalyst partially reduces them to alkenes.  FTP, name this class of compounds with formula CnH2n-2 [C-n-H-2n minus 2] whose simplest member is acetylene and which is characterized by a carbon triple bonded to a carbon.	alkynes	Diels–Alder_reaction	False
1231	A final attack mounted by the Counts Marle and Fauquembergues and an earlier attack on the baggage train likely combined to explain the victorious commander's order to execute prisoners.  The victor's flanks were protected by long stakes driven into the ground while the losers attack was so funneled that they couldn't wield their weapons when they reached the enemy line.  The French commander, d'Albret, blocked the road to Calais and in the resultant battle the masses of English longbows proved devastating to the clumsy French knights.  FTP, name this battle of the Hundred Years' War fought in 1415, a resounding victory of Henry V.	Battle of Agincourt	Battle_of_Agincourt	True
1232	Cleaving its hinge with papain separates its Fc [eff-cee] and Fab [eff-ay-bee] portions.  Its structure was established by Gerald Edelman and Rodney Porter, who found a characteristic beta fold in each of its 8 constant domains.  The A type is found in saliva and milk, the G type activates macrophages, and the M type is made by B cells early in immune response.  Consisting of two heavy chains and two kappa or lambda light chains and variable regions, FTP, name this immune protein produced in response to the presence of a specific antigen.	antibody or immunoglobulin	Antibody	True
1233	"This play features a minor role for the nanny Anne-Marie, who had to give up her own child to take her current job.  The central figure has three children, Bob, Emmy, and Ivar and is contrasted to some degree with her childhood friend Kristine Linde.  Often referred to as ""little starling"" or ""squirrel"" throughout the work, she is forced into a life-changing decision after being blackmailed by Nils Krogstad and finally abandoning the overbearing nature of Torvald.  FTP, identify this play about the soon to be independent Nora Helmer, a work by Henrik Ibsen."	A Doll's House or A Dollhouse	A_Doll's_House	True
1234	Among his early drawings, he shows a fascination with the necks of old people.  His Madonna Litta is the only painting of his in Russia, while his portrait of Ginevra de' Benci is the only painting of his in America.  Most of his paintings date from the fifteen years after he left the workshop of Andrea del Verrocchio to settle in Milan.  The lone exception is his Madonna of the Rocks.  FTP, name this painter, draftsman, sculptor, architect, and engineer perhaps best known for his Last Supper and portrait of Mona Lisa.	Leonardo da Vinci (accept either name)	Mona_Lisa	False
1235	"In her essay ""22 Hyde Park Gate,"" also the address of her childhood home, she alludes to the sexual abuse of her half-brother Gerald Duckworth upon both her and her sister, Vanessa.  She parodies her own devotion to Vanessa in the novel Flush, written almost twenty years after her first novel The Voyage Out.  It was with The Waves and Orlando that she established her modernist credentials, though both pale in comparison to Mrs. Dalloway.  FTP, name this member of the Bloomsbury Group and author of the novel To the Lighthouse and the essay ""A Room of One's Own."""	Virginia Woolf	Virginia_Woolf	True
1236	"Its central area of control was centered on the Kanto plain and Kihai district and called the tenryo or ""heavenly domain.""  The country was administered by the Baku-Han system and daimyos, classified as ""fudai"" or ""tozawa,"" were forced to spend every other year in attendance at the court of Edo.  It was established shortly after the Battle of Sekigahara and was preceded by the period when Nobunaga and Hideyoshi consolidated power.  FTP, identify this Japanese Shogunate established by Ieyasu and overthrown in the Meiji Restoration."	{Tokugawa Shogunate} or Tokugawa bakufu (accept Edo Period before it is mentioned.)	Tokugawa_shogunate	True
1237	One of his last works, Mysterium Coniunctionis, dealt with alchemy and symbolism.  He worked with Eugen Bleuler at the Burgholzli Asylum, applying word association tests to find negative, emotional, repressed content he called complexes.   He resigned from the International Psychoanalytic Society in 1914 after breaking with Freud, and differentiated between introverted and extroverted attitudes in Psychological Types.  FTP, name this psychoanalyst who developed the ideas of animus and anima and the collective unconscious.	Carl Gustav Jung	Sigmund_Freud	False
1238	"This author continues to write ""The Matchbook of Minerva,"" a weekly column in one of his country's major periodicals.  In 1966 he published his monograph on the poetry of Joyce and a summation of Finnegan's Wake, and two years later he wrote The Absent Structure.  However, he gained worldwide acclaim for a 1980 novel that had such working titles as ""Adso of Melk"" and ""Murder in the Abbey.""  FTP, name this leading figure in the field of semiotics, the Italian novelist of Foucault's Pendulum and The Name of the Rose"	Umberto Eco	The_Name_of_the_Rose	False
1239	The capture of Breymann Redoubt and the death of General Simon Fraser were among the occurrences in the last conflict of this larger battle.  Earlier in the campaign the eventual losers had a detachment defeated at Bennington before their march was stopped following the Battle of Freeman's Farm.  It was part of planned pincer movement in which Barry St. Leger would advance south from Canada and then attack from the west and Howe would come north from Philadelphia.   FTP, name this 1777 victory of Horatio Gates over John Burgoyne, regarded as the turning point in the Revolutionary War.	"Battle of Saratoga (prompt on ""Bemis Heights"" or ""Freeman's Farm"")"	Battles_of_Saratoga	False
1240	"Early on he gained the enmity of the senate by executing four ex-consuls, including Gaius Avidius Negrinus, for plotting against him.  As a young man he was called ""Graeculus"" for his Hellenic studies and he was ridiculed for his sexual relationship with the Greek youth Antinous, who was made a god upon his death by drowning.  He put down the revolt of Bar Kokhba in Jerusalem in 135 and chose his Antoninus Pius as his successor.  FTP, identify this Roman emperor who succeeded Trajan and built a namesake wall to protect Britain."	Hadrian (or Publius Aelius Traianus Hadrianus)	Trajan	False
1241	"His second wife, Frances Appleton, died when her dress caught fire and he wrote the sonnet ""The Cross of Snow"" in her honor.  He memorialized the oldest Jewish community in the U.S. with his ""The Jewish Cemetery at Newport"" and wrote of the ""spreading chestnut tree"" of Brattle Street in ""The Village Blacksmith.""  He used a tale related by Nathaniel Hawthorne for his most famous poem and the historical tale of John and Priscilla Alden for another poem.  FTP, name this poet who wrote ""This is the forest primeval"" in beginning his long verse work of divided lovers, Evangeline."	Henry Wadsworth Longfellow	Nathaniel_Hawthorne	False
1242	"They are most commonly made in completely dry conditions in which the necessary ingredients are added in a flask containing diethyl ether, and the flask is fitted with a reflux condenser and heated over a warm water bath.  They produce an inorganic ""basic bromide"" when reacted with water and, in a two-step process, result in carboxylic acids when reacted with carbon dioxide.  Also used to produce alcohols from carbonyls, FTP, identify these organometallic compounds produced from a haloalkane and magnesium."	Grignard reagents	Carboxylic_acid	False
1243	"When traveling to Germany at the age of 19, the steamer he was on caught fire, an experience that inspired his story ""A Fire at Sea.""  He wrote several plays, of which A Provincial Lady and A Month in the Country were the most successful.  However, he made his name with politically-themed novels like Rudin and On the Eve.  He left his country shortly after the release of his Sportsmen's Sketches and resolved to stay abroad after the reviews of his 1862 novel that introduced the character of Bazarov.  FTP, identify this author who gave name to nihilism in his novel Fathers and Sons."	Ivan Sergeyevich Turgenev	Fathers_and_Sons_(novel)	False
1244	"He advanced a corpuscularian philosophy in a later work, Siris, which also advocated the medicinal use of tar-water.  His philosophical defense of Christian doctrine, Alciphron, was written during his time spent in Rhode Island waiting for funding for his proposed St. Paul's college in Bermuda.  He developed a theory to combat the possible skeptical and atheistic tendencies of Locke's representative realism, which he summarized as ""esse est percipi,"" or ""to be is to be perceived.""  FTP, name this idealist philosopher and author of Three Dialogues Between Hylas and Philonous."	George Berkeley	John_Locke	False
1245	"In her essay ""A Bolter and the Invincible Summer"" she admits to frequently skipping classes at convent school.  Her more recent novels, The Pickup and The House Gun, are much less political than her first work, the story collection The Soft Voice of the Serpent.  She furthered her political views in The Conservationist and July's People.  However, it was The Burger's Daughter that was banned in her country for its stark portrayal of an entrenched discriminatory system.  FTP, name this South African winner of the 1991 Nobel in Literature."	Nadine Gordimer	Nadine_Gordimer	True
1246	The first term in the virial expansion for it is RT times the natural logarithm of pressure.  At constant temperature and pressure, chemical equilibrium requires that this quantity is at a minimum.  The change in this quantity is proportional to the natural logarithm of the equilibrium constant and it is defined as enthalpy minus temperature multiplied by entropy.   FTP, identify this thermodynamic state function named for its American formulator.	"Gibbs free energy (prompt on ""G"")"	Enthalpy	False
1247	"Shortly before his death this writer wrote ""Give me the moon at my feet / Put my feet upon the crescent, like a Lord!"" At the end of his life, he was admired by several women who called him Lorenzo and considered themselves his disciples. His The Plumed Serpent is set in Mexico, whereas Kangaroo is not surprisingly set in Australia.  Among his famous short stories are ""Odor of Chrysanthemums"" and ""The Prussian Officer.""  FTP, name this novelist who wrote of the Brangwen sisters in Women in Love, Paul Morel in Sons and Lovers, and the gamekeeper Mellors in Lady Chatterley's Lover."	David Herbert Lawrence	Lady_Chatterley's_Lover	False
1248	He turned away from novels for several years, publishing East, West, a book of short stories, and his travel narrative in a dangerous Nicaragua, The Jaguar Smile. Professor Malik Solanka travels the globe in his novel Fury, and he chronicles Flapping Eagle's quest to regain his mortality in Grimus.  The world of rock and roll provides the frame for The Ground Beneath her Feet, but is for a novel about Shiva and Saleem Sinai that he first received acclaim.  FTP, name this Indian author of Midnight's Children and the much more controversial The Satanic Verses.	Salman Rushdie	Midnight's_Children	False
1249	In Carbon 13 NMR, it is responsible for the splitting of resonance peaks, causing magnetic interactions between hydrogen atoms and carbon-13 isotopes.  Electrons can have a magnitude of it equal only to plus or minus Planck's constant divided by 4 times pi.  Electrons with the same kind of it are forbidden to share the same orbital, as defined by the Pauli exclusion principle.  FTP, name this concept, the angular momentum associated with microscopic particles, and synonymous with the motion you would associate with a top.	spin	Electron	False
1250	"One character in this work frequently displays tricky billiard shots and then launches into long rhetorical speeches, and when he is stopped, always mutters, ""I am silent.""  His nephew had drowned and was close friends with Peter Trofimov, who is very close with his niece Anya.  Anya is the daughter of Madame Ranevsky, who is finally forced to sell her estate to Lopahkin, a former servant.  It is a symbolic portion of that estate that gives this work its title.  FTP, name this play by Anton Chekhov."	The Cherry Orchard	The_Cherry_Orchard	True
1251	This empire had its paper currency devalued seventy-fold within sixty years of its founding, so it turned to copper coins, which were quickly counterfeited.  This faulty policy was in part due to the peasant man who founded it, the Hongwu emperor.  In its early years the eunuch admiral Cheng Ho began a series of seven naval expeditions, but a gradual decline over the next 250 years, spurred on by ever increasing Manchu raids, stunted this empire's growth.  FTP, name this Chinese dynasty in power from AD 1368 to 1644, which is now famed for its porcelain.	Ming Dynasty	Ming_dynasty	True
1252	Primary ones can be made from phthalimide anions without danger of overalkylation, a convenient synthesis discovered by Siegmund Gabriel. They can also be made by reducing alkyl azides via either catalytic hydrogenation or treatment with lithium aluminum hydride. They can be converted to alkenes via the Hoffmann elimination, or acylated to form amides. Most of their chemistry is due to the reactivity of a lone pair, which makes them function as bases, and the simplest one is ammonia. FTP, name this class of compounds characterized by the presence of a nitrogen atom.	amines	Amide	False
1253	The premiere of this opera was delayed for eleven months because the set designs and costumes were trapped in Paris during the Franco-Prussian War.  The Triumphal March and ballet that open Act II are central to the returning army's celebrations, but it is the solo pieces that drive this work.  Among those are a baritone role for Amonasro and a mezzo-soprano role for the jealous Amneris.  FTP, name this opera that ends with the Egyptian officer Radames buried alive with the titular Ethiopian slave, a work by Giuseppe Verdi.	Aida	Aida	True
1254	Among the accessory characters are the tax collector Binet and the young assistant Justin who unwittingly assists in the title character's final act.  This novel features some theological arguments between Bournisien and the town apothecary, but other residents of Yonville are the focus of the central plot.  Among those residents are the law clerk Leon and the wealthy landowner Rodolphe, both of whom have affairs with the title character, who ruins the finances of her doctor husband Charles before committing suicide.  FTP, identify this novel about a French country girl written by Gustave Flaubert.	Madame Bovary	Madame_Bovary	True
1255	"He started out in his family's stone-carving business before coming to work with Bruno Paul and then Peter Behrens before opening his own firm.  His work in Europe included the Tugendhat House in the Czech Republic as well as the Weissenhof apartments and Berlin's New National Gallery.  He went on to design the German Pavillion at the Barcelona exposition during his time as director of the Bauhaus.  FTP, name this designer of the Seagram Building, an architect whose motto was ""Less is More."""	Ludwig Mies van der Rohe	Czech_Republic	False
1256	"In chapter 8 of this novel, Block the tradesman is introduced to the protagonist by Leni.  In chapter 9, the protagonist is ordered to escort an Italian to the Cathedral, and in the tenth and final chapter, set on the evening before the protagonist's 31st birthday, he is stabbed to death.  He has conversations with Frau Grubach and Fraulein Burstner after the opening page in which we learn that ""without having done anything wrong he was arrested one fine morning.""  FTP, name this novel about Josef K., a work by Franz Kafka."	The Trial	The_Trial	True
1257	"Among the situations the author uses to make his points in this book are the plight of Irish prostitutes in London and the exploitation of Holland's fisheries.  Book Five begins with a clarification on the expenses of maintaining both militias and standing armies; Book Two details the ""nature, accumulation, and employment of stock;"" and Book Four details the ""systems of political economy.""  Its author advocated that government maintain a laissez-faire attitude and coined the principle of the ""invisible hand"" to elucidate this point.  FTP, name this magnum opus of Adam Smith."	An Inquiry into the Nature and Causes of the Wealth of Nations	Adam_Smith	False
1258	Count Robert de Montesquiou was the original of his homosexual character Baron de Charlus.  He used Laure Hayman, his uncle's mistress, as the basis for his character Odette, and his lovers Reynaldo Hahn and Lucien Daudet were the model for Albertine.  All of these characters appear in a work published between 1913 and 1927, whose sections include Cities of the Plain and Swann's Way.  FTP, name this French writer who produced the lengthy novel Remembrance of Things Past.	Marcel Proust	In_Search_of_Lost_Time	False
1259	"Charles Taylor has written two books about this philosopher, one of which considers him ""and modern society,"" and he was also the subject of Herbert Marcuse's Reason and Revolution.  Walter Kaufmann's ""reinterpretation"" of his work argues that he was strongly influenced by Goethe and Schiller and dismisses the view that he thought that Germany was the culmination of world history, a position others have read into his Philosophy of Right.  FTP, name this thinker who wrote The Phenomenology of Spirit, whose notion of the dialectic proved highly influential."	Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel	Friedrich_Schiller	False
1260	"Among his compositions are ""Heart Wounds"" and ""The Last Spring,"" melodies after a popular poem of his nation.  His piano works include the Humoresques and 66 Lyric Pieces, among which are the ""Cradle Song"" and ""Wedding Day at Troldhaugen.""  His first major work was the Piano Concerto in A minor, which was first sight-read by Franz Liszt, but he gained widespread fame with a piece of incidental music he was asked to write in 1876.  FTP, name this author of the Holberg Suite and two suites for Peer Gynt, the greatest Norwegian composer."	Edvard Grieg	Peer_Gynt	False
1261	"A ""Prophetic"" version of this philosophy has been attributed to Cornell West, while Richard Rorty has developed a modified version and wrote a 1982 book about the ""Consequences"" of it.  Oliver Wendell Holmes Jr. wrote a book applying this philosophical ""ism"" to the law.  Revived in the 1950s by Quine's Two Dogmas of Empiricism, its first major proponent was Charles Sanders Peirce.  FTP, identify this theory arguing that practical use is the test of truth and which is associated with John Dewey and William James."	pragmatism	Willard_Van_Orman_Quine	False
1262	During the latter part of his life he received much criticism for organizing a club solely for schoolgirls, the Angelfish Club.  His disastrous investment in the Paige typesetting machine was the end of a business career started well when his Charles L. Webster Company published Ulysses Grant's memoirs.  Thus he was forced to continue writing, releasing such works as Personal Recollections of Joan of Arc, The American Claimant, and a tale of mixed identity in Dawson's Landing, Pudd'nhead Wilson.  FTP, name this American who also wrote the travelogues Innocents Abroad and Roughing It and novels about Tom Sawyer and Huck Finn.	Mark Twain (or Samuel Clemens)	Adventures_of_Huckleberry_Finn	False
1263	Cytotoxic T cells secrete of perforin from these structures and melanocytes secrete melanin from a modified form of them.  In addition, their exocytosis provides the additional membrane needed to quickly seal wounds in the plasma membrane.  I-cell disease is caused by a failure to phosphorylate all enzymes that are supposed to be transported to them.  FTP, name these organelles that contain lipases, nucleases, proteases, and other digestive enzymes that break down complex molecules in the body.	lysosomes	Cell_membrane	False
1264	"He spoke of the ""Champak odours"" that fail ""like sweet thoughts in a dream"" and experimented with an Orientalist theme in the love poem ""The Indian Serenade.""  He wrote of the life of the man who is bound by the titular ""Spirit"" to ""fear himself , and love all humankind"" in his ""Hymn to Intellectual Beauty.""  The ""old, mad, blind, despised, and dying"" king symbolizes the times in his ""England in 1819"" and he employs terza rima to praise the titular weather phenomenon in his ""Ode to the West Wind.""  FTP, name this poet who also refers to a ""Blithe Spirit"" and a traveler from an ""antique land"" in his ""To a Skylark"" and ""Ozymandias."""	Percy Bysshe Shelley	Ozymandias	False
1265	"He had an early interest in psychology and later in his life discovered, contemporaneously with Donald Hebb, the synaptic connection model of the mind which he put forth in his 1952 work The Sensory Order.  He is more famous in another field for which he developed his idea of a ""spontaneous order"" and wrote such works as The Pure Theory of Capital.  His most famous work argues that state control of the economy leads to totalitarianism.  FTP, name this man who shared the 1974 Nobel in Economics with Gunnar Myrdal and wrote The Road to Serfdom."	Friedrich August von Hayek	Kenneth_Arrow	False
1266	"According to the Historiae Augustae Alexander Severus had a statue of this man in his sanctuary.  Porphyry placed him among the sages or divine men although Celsus believed that he was a sorcerer who learned magic in Egypt. He was also discussed in the controversial Testimonium Flavianum passage of The Jewish Antiquities of Josephus.  In modern times he was the subject of a ""Critically Examined"" life by David Strauss as well as a biography by Hegel.    FTP identify this religious figure, the brother of James ""The Righteous,"" who was crucified during the governorship of Pontius Pilate."	Jesus of Nazareth or Jesus Christ	Georg_Wilhelm_Friedrich_Hegel	False
1267	He was buried by God after dying on Mount Nebo, and his sister got leprosy after she showed her envy of him.  The son of Amram and Jochebed, he was nursed by Yocheved and had a son, Gershom, after becoming a shepherd of Jethro, whose daughter he married.  He took up this occupation for 40 years after he murdered an Egyptian for mistreating a slave, but God eventually revealed himself to this man on Mt. Horeb.  FTP, name this brother of Aaron and husband of Zipporah, a prophet of the Old Testament who led the exodus of the Israelites out of Egypt and received the Ten Commandments on Mt. Sinai.	Moses (or Moshe)	Moses	True
1268	Lowe syndrome causes a deficiency of an enzyme which affects the metabolic processes that take place in this cell structure.  One of its main functions is the remodeling of oligosaccharides, while other functions include the synthesis of lipids like sphingomyelin and the addition of sulfate groups to tyrosine.  Often located near endoplasmic reticulum exit sites, it uses clathrin-coated vesicles to send certain proteins to lysosomes and other vesicles to secrete proteins from the cell.   FTP, name this organelle divided into stacks of flattened, membrane-bounded cisternae, which packages and sorts newly-created proteins.	Golgi Apparatus/Body/Whatever	Endoplasmic_reticulum	False
1269	Its opening scene begins with an Allegro Giusto movement and shows the protagonist on the eve of his coming-of-age ceremony, celebrating with his friend Benno and his drunk tutor Wolfgang.  To escape the Queen Mother's reminders of his eventual need to marry, the protagonist goes hunting in the forest and is discovered by the evil wizard Von Rothbart, who plots to have his daughter Odile seduce the hero and prevent him from breaking the curse placed upon Odette.  Such is the story of Prince Sigfried, in, FTP, what Tchaikovsky ballet about a maiden who spends her days in the form of a white bird in the title pond?	Swan Lake	Swan_Lake	True
1270	One result of these objects is the Tonks-Girardeau gas.  In 2003 teams led by Rudolf Grimm and Deborah Jin showed that they could be formed from molecules.  Two useful methods for creating them are laser cooling and magnetic evaporative cooling.  Often created from (*) rubidium, they are very similar to lasers, where all the photons are identical, since each compound in it is identical.  First created in 1995 by Cornell and Wieman, this is, FTP, what fifth state of matter in which individual atoms combine into one superatom?	Bose-Einstein Condensate or B-E-C	Laser	False
1271	"At the time of his death, his novels Fruitfulness, Labor, and Truth were the completed works in his unfinished Four Gospels series.  An earlier trilogy, which contained works about Rome, Lourdes, and Paris, marked his return to novel writing after his foray into criticism, which produced the treatise The Experimental Novel.  Another set of novels, including The Human Beast, The Dram Shop, and The Belly of Paris, comprises his Rougon-Macquart Cycle, which follows a large family during the decline of France's Second Empire.  FTP, name this naturalist author of Nana and Germinal, who also penned a defense of Alfred Dreyfus with his ""J'Accuse."""	Emile Zola	Émile_Zola	False
1272	He accompanied General St. Clair as a judge-advocate on a mission to Vienna and Turin but he would not become famous on the continent till the translation of his Political Discourses into French.  Shortly thereafter the first volume of his six-volume History of Great Britain appeared.  His first success, Essays Moral and Political, was surpassed by a reworking of a portion of his Treatise of Human Nature.  FTP, name this philosopher who wrote Dialogues Concerning Natural Religion and Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding.	David Hume	Vienna	False
1273	Thomas Gold correctly specified the class to which these objects belonged after their discovery.  That discovery had labeled them LGMs, or Little Green Men, because of an incorrect assumption that they were created by extraterrestrials.  That mistake was made in 1967 by Hewish and Bell, who first observed them.  However, Gold surmised that they were simply rapidly rotating neutron stars.  FTP, identify these astronomical bodies whose name derives from their consistent expulsion of radiation every few seconds or milliseconds.	pulsars or pulsating radio star	Neutron_star	False
1274	His early successes included the defeat of Domitius Ahenobarbus and King Iarbas in Africa.  He reinforced Caecilius Metellus Pius against Sertorius in Spain and the lex Gabinia gave him a special command against Mediterranean pirates.  He ended the war of Spartacus and the final revolt of Mithridates VI, but his military success came to an end approximately fifteen years later when he fought to a draw at Dyrrachium and was crushed at Pharsalus in 48 BC by his greatest rival.  FTP, name this member of the first triumvirate and chief rival of Julius Caesar.	Pompey the Great or Gnaeus Pompeius Magnus.	Julius_Caesar	False
1275	The most recent scale that assigns values to this property is the Allred-Rochow Scale.  Another method for measuring it was developed by Robert Mulliken, who stated that it is equal to one-half times ionization energy minus electron affinity.  A more useful method of its determination was made by Linus Pauling in 1932.  Pauling set Lithium as the baseline and gave the highest value to Fluorine.  FTP, name this measure of a bonded atom's ability to attract shared electrons.	electronegativity	Linus_Pauling	False
1276	"This author helped spread his philosophy by founding a school of thought at his estate of Santiniketan.  One of his philosophical concerns was the concept of ""bridal mysticism"", which was outlined in his work Sadhana.  However it was for poetry, in such collections as The Gardener and The Crescent Moon, that he became known.  It was another collection, Gitanjali, that featured a poem that became his country's national anthem.  FTP, name this writer who wrote in Bengali, the first non-European and Indian to win the Nobel Prize in Literature."	Sir Rabindranath Tagore	Gitanjali	False
1277	"Its discoverer and namesake initially published this law as a Latin anagram and two centuries later, Cauchy generalized it to three-dimensional bodies.  The two quantities involved are related by the first Lame constant, a constant represented by mu and known as the shear modulus, though in simpler terms this law can be expressed as ""F equals negative k x.""  FTP, name this law of mechanics that states that stress is directly proportional to strain, and was first used to describe the spring in springs."	Hooke's Law	Augustin-Louis_Cauchy	False
1278	"Both Wounds in the Rain and Whilomville Stories appeared after he settled in England, where his numerous extramarital affairs destroyed his reputation back home in America.  The Greco-Turkish War was the subject of his Active Stories and George's Mother focuses on life in the Bowery, which he also did in a better known short novel.  He also wrote numerous stories, including ""The Blue Hotel"" and ""The Bride Comes to Yellow Sky.""  FTP, name this author of Maggie, a Girl of the Streets who also wrote of Henry Fleming in Red Badge of Courage."	Stephen Crane	The_Red_Badge_of_Courage	False
1279	Its tile floor borrows its design from the mosaic floor of Westminster Abbey.  Sometimes seen as an allusion to Plutarch's Parallel Lives, which had recently been translated by one of its subjects, it includes Peter Apian's book on accounting as one of the representatives of the quadrivium on display.  This is on one of the shelves in the back, which also hold a sundial and a globe.  Just below Jean de Dinteville and Georges de Selve is a distorted skull that appears normally if viewed from below.  FTP, name this portrait by Hans Holbein depicting two representatives of Francis I in London.	The (French) Ambassadors	Hans_Holbein_the_Younger	False
1280	"His main temple, with a name meaning ""the house of the exalted head,"" was the Esagila.  Originally a god of thunderstorms whose consort was Zarpanit, it was later claimed that An and Enlil transferred their powers to him.  Later also known as Bel, he in fact had 50 names.  He was given kingship over the universe and the other gods in the Enuma Elish for his defeat of both Kingu and Tiamat.  FTP, name this chief Babylonian god."	Marduk (accept Bel before it is mentioned)	Marduk	True
1281	Its penultimate chapter features one character reading aloud from the works of Maine de Biran and Cardinal Newman.  Pope [poh-PAY] is responsible for this novel's protagonist having an encyclopedic knowledge of Shakespeare as he provided the bard's Complete Works to Linda, the protagonist's mother.  That protagonist hangs himself at the end of the novel after briefly reexperiencing desire for Lenina Crowne and after Mustapha Mond and Bernard Marx learn that they will be exiled.  FTP, name this work that focuses on the savage John and which imagines a genetically regulated future, a novel by Aldous Huxley.	Brave New World	Brave_New_World	True
1282	Among the guises the title character assumes are Sinbad the Sailor; Busoni, whom he pretends to be to find news of father; and Lord Wilmore, as whom he effects various charitable deeds.  He plans on allowing himself to be shot at a duel with Albert, the son of his greatest rival, but the unveiling of his true identity prevents the duel and he does find eventual happiness with his companion, the beautiful Haydee.  After finding the fortune disclosed by Abbe [ah-BAY] Faria, he begins his plan of revenge upon Villefort, Danglars, and Fernand, the last of whom married his former fianc? Mercedes.  FTP, name this adventure novel about Edmond Dantes, a work by Alexander Dumas.	The Count of Monte Cristo	The_Count_of_Monte_Cristo	True
1283	"His first known action was the negotiation of a treaty at Margus that gained his people a sum of 700 pounds of gold a year.  He died during the reign of Marcian and came to power after the death of his uncle Rua and after he killed his intended co-ruler, his brother Bleda.  His rule was already on the decline before Aetius and a confederation of troops defeated him at Catalaunian Plains, or the Battle of Chalons in 451.  FTP, name this so-called ""Scourge of God"" and feared ruler of the Huns."	Attila	Huns	False
1284	He studied under French painters Carle Vernet and Pierre Guerin before traveling to Italy to further his career. His earliest major work, The Charging Chasseur, as well as Wounded Cuirassier and Race of the Riderless Horse, convey one of the chief interests of this avid horseman.  He was a frequent patient at numerous asylums and mental hospitals, which served as the inspirations for paintings like A Mad Woman with a Mania of Envy.  FTP, name this 19th-century French Romantic painter who depicted a recent national tragedy by showing the dying survivors of a shipwreck in his The Raft of the Medusa.	Theodore Gericault	The_Raft_of_the_Medusa	False
1285	His lesser victories included Lyginus where he defeated the Triballi and the Jaxartes where he defeated the Scythians.  Among his less honorable acts were the destruction of Thebes and the slaying, in a fit of anger, of Cleitus the Black who saved his life at the Granicus.  The commander of the companion cavalry at Chaeronea, his major victories came at the Hydaspes - against Porus - and Issus and Guagamela against Darius III.  After his death, his generals Antigonus, Ptolemy, and Seleucus divided up his kingdom.  FTP, name this Macedonian prince who conquered much of the known world before dying in his 30s.	Alexander the Great or Alexander III of Macedon	Darius_the_Great	False
1286	In punishment for making love in an area sacred to Zeus she and her husband are turned into lions.  In one tradition she is the daughter of the Boeotian Schoeneus and in the other the daughter of the Arcadian Iasus.   Cared for by a bear after being exposed as a child, her own son, Parthenopaeus, was one of the Seven Against Thebes.  She is most associated with two men, one of whom gave her a prize which indirectly caused his death and the other of whom used three golden apples to win her in marriage.  FTP, name this huntress who helped Meleager kill the Calydonian boar and who was beaten by Hippomenes in a footrace.	Atalanta	Atalanta	True
1287	As a youth he studied with Carl Czerny in Vienna and went on to take composition lessons from Ferdinando Paer and Anton Reicha.  His major compositions include the character pieces that make up the three-volume Years of Pilgrimage and a symphonic poem based on lines by his friend Lamartine, Les Preludes.  His orchestral works include the two Mephisto Waltzes, but he is remembered for it is for compositions for a specific instrument, as in his 12 Transcendental Etudes.  FTP, name this man, whose other compositions for the piano include his set of 20 Hungarian Rhapsodies.	Franz Liszt	Vienna	False
1288	"He postulated that the human mental process of pairing opposites engenders an unconscious ""metastructure"" of society, an idea known as his ""distinctive feature method"" of analysis.  First gaining fame with the work A World on the Wane, he argued that the father/son, brother/sister, husband/wife, and uncle/nephew relationships constructed the elementary unit of kinship.  The author of Totemism and The Savage Mind, he is considered a leading exponent of structuralism, a system used heavily in his four-volume work Mythologiques.  FTP, name this French anthropologist and author of The Raw and the Cooked."	Claude L?i-Strauss	Claude_Lévi-Strauss	False
1289	"Major influences in his life were boyhood tutor Simon Rodriguez and his mistress Manuela Saenz.  His first major expedition was eventually repulsed due to the llanero [YA-neh-ro] cavalry of Jose Tomas Boves forcing him into exile, from where he wrote his famous ""Letter from Jamaica.""  His return saw a succession of victories at Boyaca, Carabobo, and Junin, and under the control of Antonio Sucre, his forces also won at Ayacucho.  FTP, identify this leader who gained the independence of Colombia and Venezuela, thereby becoming known as ""The Liberator."""	Simon Bolivar	Venezuela	False
1290	"Robert Graves wrote that when this poet was a boy of nine, ""he had been violently debauched by his nymphomaniac Calvinist housemaid.""  He was fond of taking shots at his contemporaries and did so in his English Bards and Scotch Reviewers, while specifically targeting Robert Southey in 1822's The Vision of Judgment.  Just two years later he died in Missolonghi after joining the Greek fight for independence.  He left behind such dramas as Manfred and such long poems as Childe Harold's Pilgrimage.  FTP, name this poet of ""She Walks in Beauty"" and Don Juan [JOO-un]."	George Gordon, Lord Byron	Last_Judgment	False
1291	"His moral theory posits that all virtuous actions are based on fortitude, or strength of mind, which is further divided into animositas, or rational self-preservation, and generositas, or the rational helping of others.  He developed a geometrical method based upon the presentation of Euclid's Elements which he used in the only work he published non-anonymously in his lifetime, Principles of Descartes' Philosophy.  His metaphysics revolves around the idea of ""God, or Nature"" holding that God is the only substance and gaining him the label of Pantheist.  FTP, name this Dutch rationalist, excommunicated from the Jewish community, who wrote The Ethics."	Baruch (or Benedict) Spinoza	René_Descartes	False
1292	The title character of this work at one point gives a speech about the legendary Dave Singleman, who inspired him in his profession.  A climactic confrontation occurs at Frank Chop's House, where we are introduced to the suspected prostitutes Letta and Miss Forsythe.  Other significant moments include the title character's hallucinated conversations with his elder brother Ben and the final scene of Act II in which he drives away to commit suicide to cash in on an insurance policy for his family.  FTP, name this play about the failures of Biff, Happy, and Willy Loman, a work by Arthur Miller.	Death of a Salesman	Death_of_a_Salesman	True
1293	Richard Zsigmondy won a Nobel Prize in chemistry for his development of a special type of microscope to observe these substances.  Arne Tiselius' first use of electrophoresis was to separate them and John Tyndall observed their unique dispersion of light in the effect named for him.  Common types include gels, emulsions, and sols.  FTP, what are these types of mixtures composed of a suspended and mobile phase?	colloid	Gilbert_N._Lewis	False
1294	In one myth about him he is comforted by Thetis after being driven out of the land of Lycurgus of Thrace.  Another tells of his kidnapping by pirates whom he turns into dolphins when they jump off the ship.  He was cared for in his childhood by the nymphs of Nysa as well as his aunt Ino.  He is often given as the father of Priapus and Deianira and his tutor was Silenus.  Born from the thigh of Zeus after his mother, Semele, perished when she saw Zeus in his god-form, FTP, name this leader of the maenads and god of revelry and wine.	Dionysus (accept Bacchus until Zeus is mentioned)	Zeus	True
1295	One early victory was over the Merkit who had kidnapped his wife Borte.  In this fight and in his later rise to power he was greatly aided by Togril, a friend of his father Yekusai, whom he later turned against.  He succeeded in consolidating his people and gaining rule over them at the khuriltai of 1206 and went on to lead them against the Kwarezm Empire as well as the Hsia and Ch'in kingdoms.  He died while on campaign in China and was succeeded by his son Ogadai.  FTP, identify this great Mongol ruler, the grandfather of Kublai.	Genghis Khan or Jenghiz Khan or Chaangyus Khan or Temujin	Kublai_Khan	False
1296	He was rebuffed by Cardinal Cajetan and goaded by the actions of Andrea Karlstadt into a disastrous debate with Johann Eck.  He was then the subject of the bulls Exsurge Domine and Decet Romanum Pontificem.  Those pitfalls may have caused him to write such pamphlets as Against the Heavenly Prophets and Against the Jews and Their Lies.  He also wrote Against the Murderous and Thieving Hordes of Peasants to denounce their actions in the Peasant's War.  Protected by Frederick III of Saxony after his condemnation at the Diet of Worms, FTP, who was this reformer who railed against indulgences in his Ninety-Five Theses, thus catalyzing the Protestant Reformation?	Martin Luther	Martin_Luther	True
1297	"Its intermediate case is known as the Paschen-Back effect, and if the associated interaction is larger than the hyperfine interaction, it is known as the Back-Goudsmit effect. The Hanle effect can be used in conjunction with it to study level lifetimes, while for certain field values, level crossing occurs, despite the fact that it mostly breaks degeneracy rather than creating it. Known in the weak-field case as ""anomalous,"" FTP, identify this effect, in which atomic levels are split by the magnetic quantum number upon application of an external magnetic field."	Zeeman effect	Magnetic_field	False
1298	An article written at Queen's Royal College, discussing his admiration for Maugham's Liza of Lambeth, inspired his novel about life in the slums, Miguel Street.  Nonfiction works include Among the Believers and Beyond Belief, both about Islam, and A Turn in the South about Africa.  While Mr. Stone and the Knight's Companion has a completely English setting, most of his works such as The Enigma of Arrival, Half a Life, and The Suffrage of Elvira constantly shift locales and present characters who strive to make a connection to the land.  Characters like Jimmy Ahmed in Guerrillas or Ranjit Singh in Mimic Men thus mirror his own half-Hindi/ half-Trinidadian heritage.  FTP, identify this author best known for A Bend in the River and A House for Mr. Biswas.	V. S. Naipaul	W._Somerset_Maugham	False
1299	"Since their DNA copying does not have any error checking, the probability of random mutation is much higher, leading to diseases such as Kearn-Sayre syndrome.  Its DNA typically consists of five to ten copies, all inherited from the mother, and when they divide these copies are randomly distributed between the offspring.  Some theories hold that its DNA is derived from a single source called ""Eve"".  FTP, what are these organelles long ago incorporated into eukaryotic cells to produce energy for them?"	mitochondria	DNA	False
1300	"His minor works include a choral setting of the hymn Let there be Light, ""Song for the Harvest Season,"" and the cantata The Celestial Country.  Though not a great student, he managed to absorb Horatio Parker's teachings even though he felt the latter's music was dull and unmasculine.  For inspiration he turned to his own father, who had founded the Danbury Town Bannd.""  The third of his five symphonies won the Pulitzer and his 114 Songs include some of the same settings as his Three Places in New England.  FTP, identify this American modernist composer and insurance agent who wrote ""The Unanswered Question,"" the Holidays Symphony, and the Concord Sonata."	Charles Ives	Piano_sonata	False
1301	"Hittite warriors raided his shrine in 1590 BCE where people celebrated his festival at the spring equinox.  His cult managed to spread as far as Eridu and he was also important to the Canaanites.  This god of 50 titles rode a chariot drawn by the steeds Slayer, Pitiless, Racer, and Flyer.  With an antitoxin in his head, this deity, whose name literally means ""bull calf of the sun,"" rode to fight his greatest opponent and after emerging victorious fastened of the tablets of destiny on his breast.  FTP, name this son of Ea and consort of Sarpanitu who slew the dragon Tiamat."	Marduk	Hittites	False
1302	"Its section titled ""Cutty Sark"" is designed as a fugue counterpointing the rhythms of a pianola with the ramblings of a derelict sailor.  The first section ""Ave Maria"" opens with Columbus returning to Spain.  ""The Harbor Dawn"" mimics through its meter the acceleration of a train.  The last section, ""Atlantis,"" talks of the ""bound cable strands"" and the ""telepathy of wires"" the poet sees in Brooklyn.  FTP, name this 1930 poem by Hart Crane."	The Bridge	Hart_Crane	False
1303	"His final work was rejected three times before manuscript was accepted, it contained essays like ""Transcendent Speculation on the Apparent Premeditation in Personal Fate,"" ""Essay on Ghost Seeing and its Related Aspects,"" and ""Aphorisms on Practical Wisdom."" Garnering much more attention than previous books like On the Fourfold Root and The Two Main Problems of Ethics, the two volume Parerga and Paralipomena brought recognition to this man who helped Goethe pen his ""theory of colors."" His thought reduced all Kantian cognitive forms to time, space and mechanical causality, and considered things-in-themselves quite knowable. Unfortunately his lectures at the University were poorly attended, as people preferred those of his rival Hegel.  FTP, name this man whose pessimistic ideas were strongly influenced by the Upanishads and Buddhism, the author of 1819's The World As Will and Idea."	Arthur Schopenhauer	Georg_Wilhelm_Friedrich_Hegel	False
1304	As a baby, this hero was left to die on a mountainside but was adopted by a she-bear.  After growing up in the wild, a group of hunters took this hero to live with them. As a youth this hero fought off Hylaeus and Pholus, two vicious centaurs. Later, at the hunt of the Calydonian boar, this daughter of Iasus shot the arrow that was the first to wound the boar, earning her the hide of the boar and the grudge of many inferior men. Eventually Aphrodite helped Hippomenes win her and she bore a son Parthenopaeus, For 10 points-who is this great female warrior who, according to some accounts, sailed with the Argonauts?	Atalanta	Atalanta	True
1305	"In a youthful poem to his beloved, he wrote that he would ""fling his glove in the world's face"", and then ""stride through the wreckage a creator!"" He concluded that the whole movement of the War ""was and is based on the slave question"" in his essay ""The North American Civil War"", and was employed by Horace Greeley as a European correspondent. After completing his thesis on Post-Aristotelian Hellenic Atomism in 1841, he wrote The Poverty of Philosophy, a critique of the anarchist philosopher Proudhon. FTP, name this author of the Theses on Feuerbach, the 800-pages of outline called the ""Grundrisse,"" a co-author of the Communist Manifesto."	Karl Marx	Horace_Greeley	False
1306	Thor disguised himself as this deity to retrieve his hammer from Thrym.  This deity was said to have resided in the hall of Sessrumnir, but wandered the earth searching for Odur, a lost love. The giantess Hyndla once made disparaging remarks about this mother of Hnoss. A master of seyir, or magic, another love, the human Ottar, was transformed into a boar after a brief affair.  Her most powerful possessions were the necklace of the Brisings and her chariot drawn by cats.  FTP, name this daughter of Niord, the Norse goddess of lust and love.	Freya	Thor	False
1307	This functional group can be oxidized by peroxycarboxylic acids to form oxiranes, or epoxides.  The addition of cold, dilute, aqueous potassium permanganate also oxidizes them, to produce 1,2 diols, while hot, basic potassium permanganate causes cleavage to two molar equivalents of carboxylic acids.  Under acidic conditions, adding water to them yields an alcohol, whereas alcohols or alkyl halides can undergo elimination reactions to form them.  FTP, identify this hydrocarbon, also known as an olefin, which is characterized by a carbon-carbon double bond.	alkene	Potassium	False
1308	"He included Francis Furini, Christopher Smart, and Bernard de Mandeville among the ""certain people of importance in their day"" with whom he wrote a series of poetic ""parleyings.""  ""Bad Dreams"" and ""Inapprehensiveness"" appeared in his last volume, Asolando, which was published on the day of his death in 1889.  His early works include the long poems Paracelsus and Sordello, but he is better known for dramatic monologues like ""Soliloquy in a Spanish Cloister"" and the massive The Ring and the Book  FTP, name this poet of ""Rabbi Ben Ezra"" and ""My Last Duchess."""	Robert Browning	My_Last_Duchess	False
1309	"It is the real surname of James Fenimore Cooper's The Red Rover.  A character of this name shares a drink with Medbourne, Gascoigne, Colonel Killigrew, and the Widow Wycherly in a story by Nathaniel Hawthorne.  A thinker of this name wrote the essays ""On the Origin of the Work of Art"" and ""What Is Metaphysics?""  FTP, give the name shared by a character whose experiment involves the Fountain of Youth and the philosopher who wrote Being and Time."	Heidegger (Captain, Doctor, Martin)	Nathaniel_Hawthorne	False
1310	"The speaker in this poem asserts that the ""flow of human misery"" was brought into the mind of Sophocles long ago when he heard on the Aegean the ""grating roar of pebbles which the waves draw back, and fling, at their return, up the high strand."" In the final stanza, the speaker asks that he and his lover be true to one another, for the seemingly rosy world ""hath really neither joy, nor love, nor light, nor certitude, nor peace, nor help for pain."" Containing the famous vision of an ebbing ""Sea of Faith"" in a description of the moonlit French coast and the cliffs of England, this is, FTP, what poem by Matthew Arnold?"	Dover Beach	Dover_Beach	True
1311	"He had little success writing drama, as both The Candidate and The Castle of Hearts were summarily dismissed, but his recollection of travels with Maxime du Camp in the volume Over Strand and Field along with his letters, especially those to Louise Colet, make for compelling reading. His final, unfinished, work focused on two bungling copy clerks named Bouvard and Pecouchet, while other characters include Madame Arnoux who haunts Frederic Moreau, and, in a famed short story, the wife of Herod. Renowned for his rewriting of sentences to search for ""le mot juste."" FTP identify this French novelist of The Temptation of St. Anthony, ""Un Coeur Simple,"" and Madame Bovary."	Gustave Flaubert	Madame_Bovary	False
1312	"Also known by the epithets Heramba, Vinayaka, and Ekadanta, this deity is celebrated at his namesake ""Chaturthi"" festivals. Usually represented with a snake running around his belly, he generally holds a goad, a noose, a rosary, and a pen, in his four hands. The latter symbolizes his role as scribe, as he was the first to write down the story of the Mahabharata. The destroyer of Pride, his lack of vanity is embodied by his humble mount, the rat. But he is best known for an anatomical peculiarity gained when either Sani or Shiva decapitated him. FTP identify this deity created out of the dirt of Parvati's body, the Hindu remover of obstacles, who has an elephant's head."	Ganesha	Shiva	False
1313	His Variations on a theme of Corelli was released well after leaving his homeland for the U.S. where he twice turned down leadership of the Boston Symphony. His earlier output includes two Suites for two pianos, two elegiac trios for keyboard and strings, and a Vespers. His struggle with depression is evident and he actually dedicated his Second Symphony to his psychiatrist Nikolay Dahl. This occurred after his time studying with Alexander Solti and Nikolay Zverev in Moscow, and the writing of his opera Aleko. Other famous works by this Romantic composer include the choral symphony The Bells, the symphonic poem The Rock, and his Rhapsody on a theme of Paganini. FTP identify this 20th century composer best known for his third Piano Concerto No. 3 in D Minor and The Isle of the Dead.	Sergei Rachmaninoff	Symphony_No._3_(Beethoven)	False
1314	It opens with some remarks on the theory of eternal return in which the author paints Nietzsche as a nihilist.  In it, Franz, a university professor, hates his wife Marie-Claude and fears that his daughter may eventually end up just like her.  He has an affair with an artist who has a fascination with mirrors named Sabina, and when Franz leaves his wife to move in with her, the latter leaves for Geneva and eventually ends up in America.  The main characters are Tomas and Tereza, who live in Prague during the Prague Spring and who, in the end, die together in a car accident.  FTP, identify this 1984 work the most famous novel of Milan Kundera.	The Unbearable Lightness of Being	The_Unbearable_Lightness_of_Being	True
1315	"This artist was inspired by Japanese woodcuts and would often compose whole works from a single block of wood. Landscapes like Couple on the Shore form part of later works like The Reinhardt Frieze. Various self-portraits depict him ""with a burning cigarette,"" ""with a bottle of wine,"" and ""as the Night Wanderer."" The deaths of family members when he was young had a profound influence on early paintings like The Sick Child which depicts his eldest sister. Loneliness is constantly present in his works, especially in the 22 paintings making up the Frieze of Life, in which even those pictures about love convey a hint of death.  FTP, identify this artist who most poignantly expressed feelings about anxiety and isolation in 1893's The Scream."	Edvard Munch	The_Scream	False
1316	First described as a disease in the late 1930s, it is the most common genetic disease amongst people of European ancestry, with approximately one in twenty-five carrying one normal gene and one causing it. In its most common form, a single amino acid mutation results in abnormal production of a protein responsible for transporting chloride ions across epithelial tissue, resulting in a buildup of a viscous mucus in the lungs. For ten points, name this autosomal recessive disorder.	Cystic Fibrosis	Amino_acid	False
1317	"Works by this man, include Captain Stormfield's Visit to Heaven and the posthumous Europe and Elsewhere, in which he elaborates on the pessimistic ideas of later works like the essay ""To the Person Sitting in Darkness."" A critic of contemporary popular fiction, ""The Stolen White Elephant""and Simon Wheeler, Detective lampooned the public's interest in Alan Pinkerton's novels. A Civil War deserter who tells his story in ""The Private Campaign that Failed,""his creation of Colonel Sellers in an 1873 novel he co-wrote with Charles Dudley Warner named his era. But he first tasted literary success with an 1865 story about Jim Smiley and his hopping amphibian. FTP, name this author best known for works like Following the Equator, Life on the Mississippi, and The Prince and the Pauper."	Mark Twain (or Samuel Langhorne Clemens)	Madama_Butterfly	False
1318	Pablo Picasso made a series of 58 variations on this painting, and it was only given its modern title in 1834, nearly two hundred years after it was painted. The scene takes place in a room decorated by large canvases, and a dog lies comfortably in the right foreground. In a doorway in the background, we see Jose Nieto, while in the foreground are two dwarves and the two figures mentioned in the title, Isabel Velasco and Agustina Sarmiento. FTP, a mirror showing the king and queen, and the artist himself standing near an easel are the two most famous features of what Velazquez masterpiece?	Las Meninas	Pablo_Picasso	False
1319	In one myth this deity laid the egg that would become the world and his association with the equinoxes led to his epithet as the god of balance. His center of worship was at Khmunu and one of his wives, Seshat, was the inventor of writing. He carried the eye of Ra in his role as messenger, but is better known for weighing the hearts of the deceased in his role as judge of the dead. Often depicted as a baboon, he hid Horus from Set after the latter killed Osiris and returned Tefnut to Ra's fold. FTP name this Egyptian god of scribes, wisdom, and the moon, most commonly depicted with the head of an ibis.	Thoth	Ra	False
1320	He attended the International Labor Organization in Geneva for his country before turning to writing.  More recent works include The Crystal Frontier, Voluptuario, and The Orange Tree. His first short story collection, The Masked Days, was followed up by  Constancia and Other Stories for Virgins.  He gained little acclaim for his first novel When the Air is Clear, although Philip II's construction of El Escorial was the subject of a more famous work, Terra nostra, and he also wrote a fictionalized account of Ambrose Bierce's last days in The Old Gringo.  FTP, name this noted Marxist and author of The Death of Artemio Cruz.	Carlos Fuentes	Ambrose_Bierce	False
1321	One man by this name and numerical designation founded the Patarine party, which opposed the marriage of priests, and was elected pope after serving as Bishop of Lucca until 1061. Another man married Henry III's sister Joan and signed the Treaty of York in 1237 after succeeding his father William I as King of Scotland in 1214. Another personage with this name took advice from his minister, Pyotr Shuvalov, throughout his reign, and was honored for his defeat of the Turks with a statue in the middle of Sofia; he also signed the 1856 Treaty of Paris and put down a Polish insurrection. FTP identify this common name and number which most famously identifies the Russian czar who freed the serfs in 1861 and was assassinated by the People's Will in 1881.	Alexander II	Joan_of_Arc	False
1322	Doctors Hollatz and Hornstetter insist this novel's protagonist suffered from excessive isolation, not helped when bullies like Nuchi Eyke and Susi Kater forced him to drink a soup of bricks, urine, and live frogs, though Gretchen Scheffler pitied him and taught him about Rasputin and Goethe. After his father marries his lover Maria Truczinski, the protagonist leads a gang called the Dusters, and joins a jazz band at the Onion Cellar, but Vittlar turns him in for killing Sister Dorothea after he flees his hometown Danzig after World War II. FTP, name this novel about Oskar Matzerath and his toy instrument, by Gunther Grass.	The Tin Drum	The_Tin_Drum	True
1323	Two examples of this class of compounds are cadaverine and putrescine, which are known for their terrible odors.  Members of this class, including codeine, caffeine, and several neurotransmitters, react with acids to form acid salts since they are weak bases.  They are classified as primary, secondary or tertiary depending on how many alkyl or aromatic groups are attached to the central nitrogen atom.  Created from substituting carbon-nitrogen bonds for one or more of the carbon-nitrogen bonds on a molecule of ammonia, FTP, name these compounds with general formula R3N.	amines	Nitrogen	False
1324	One of his exploits was the slaying of Vala for stealing his cattle.  In the Ramayana a story relates how he was defeated by Meghnad, the son of Ravana and taken captive to the latter's palace before he was ransomed by Brahma.  The son of Dyaus Pita and Prthivi, among his possessions are the thunderbolt Vajra and the elephant steed Airavata.  In his most famous exploit he brought water back to the earth by slaying the dragon demon Vritra.  FTP identify this Hindu God, the head of the Vedic pantheon.	Indra	Brahma	False
1325	During this dynasty, the emperor controlled the government directly, ruling with the aid of a specially appointed Nei-ko, or Grand Secretariat. Its second ruler, Jianwen, died in a mysterious palace fire during the revolt of his uncle Yongle, who ordered the construction of the Temple of Heaven and the Forbidden City and oversaw the seven voyages of Zheng He. It was founded by an orphan and Buddhist novice who took the ruling name Hong Wu after ousting the Yuan dynasty. FTP, what was this Chinese dynasty that ruled until the Qing took power in 1644?	Ming Dynasty	Qing_dynasty	False
1326	The Schrodinger equation gives the quantum number for this value, which confirmed the Bohr theory that it is quantized, where it equals the principle quantum number times Planck's constant divided by 2 times pi.  More popularly, this value is conserved, which leads to Kepler's Law stating that a line from the sun to a planet sweeps out equal areas in equal times.  FTP, name this concept which, in a rigid object, is defined as the product of the moment of inertia and angular velocity.	angular momentum	Niels_Bohr	False
1327	The formation of their secondary walls involves intense activity of dictyosomes, which produce numerous vesicles that migrate to the primary wall and fuse with the plasmalemma layer. The various types have different functions; fibers and tracheids, which are primarily used for conduction; vessel members, for support; and the only living type of cell that comprises it, also the primary food storage unit, the parenchyma. FTP, identify this mostly dead tissue found in higher plants that is the primary conductor of water in plants, and makes up the vascular system along with the phloem.	xylem	Phloem	False
1328	His works for the piano include Sonatina, Water Play, and Mirrors, and it was the uproar caused by this man's continuous slights at the Prix de Rome that got his teacher, Gabriel Faure, elected as head of the Conservatoire. His work La Valse was written five years before his collaboration with Colette, who wrote the libretto to his opera The Child and the Enchantments. Other important works include Gaspard de la Nuit, The Tomb of Couperin, and the Pavane for a Dead Princess. But it is Spanish inspired orchestral works like the Rapsodie Espagnole and another piece that premiered in 1928 that made his name. FTP identify this composer of Daphnis and Chloe and a piece made famous by Ida Rubinstein, the insistently repetitive Bolero.	Maurice Ravel	Bolero	False
1329	Thought to have been lost forever when the Library of Alexandria burned in 48 BC., historians knew this play existed because Aristophanes and other Greek playwrights of the time made mention of it.  Recently discovered among papyrus scrolls inside a mummy, this trilogy about the Trojan War will be staged for the first time in summer 2004 in Cyprus and in Greece by Cyprus' national theater company, Thoc.  For 10 points, name this no-longer lost work of Aeschylus named for the Greek hero who slew Hector.	Achilles	Cyprus	False
1330	The product of his father's drunken rape of a village idiot girl, he hangs cats and has elaborate funerals for them.  Sent to Moscow to study cooking while his half brothers go to university, he eventually kills his father and frames his brother Dmitri for the murder.  He later commits suicide after telling his brother Ivan that he killed their old man.  FTP, name this illegitimate son of Feodor Karamazov.	Smerdyakov	The_Brothers_Karamazov	False
1331	"""I'm with you Rockland"" is repeated in the third part of this poem that was read by its author at the Six Gallery.  The second part asks what monster ""bashed open"" the skulls of the ""lamblike youths"" and ""ate up their brains and imagination"" and eventually blames the Canaanite god Moloch.  The author sees the afflicted as ""starving hysterical naked, // dragging themselves through the Negro streets at // dawn looking for an angry fix.""  FTP, name this poem which takes as its subject the ""angel headed hipsters,"" a beat anthem by Allen Ginsburg."	Howl	Howl	True
1332	"According to one legend this historical figure received a signet ring from Honoria, the sister of Valentinian III, which he assumed was a marriage proposal.  The leader of forces assembled by his uncle Rua, he killed the Visigothic king Theodoric I at a 451 battle near the Marne river, though in the end his forces were defeated by Aetius.  Said to have been convinced by Pope Leo I not to sack Rome the following year, FTP, name this loser at Chalons, the legendary king of the Huns usually referred to as the ""Scourge of God."""	Attila the Hun	Huns	False
1333	"The subject of the so-called Schr?ter Effect, this astronomical body lacks a magnetic field.  Its lack of impact craters is explained by its thick atmosphere which causes meteors to decelerate as they fall toward its surface.  In 1672 Cassini gave the name Neith to this object, which he thought was a moon, though it is now known to have no satellites.  Venera 3 first explored its surface and its highest point, the Maxwell Montes, is located on the ""continent"" Ishtar Terra.  First visited by Mariner 2, FTP, name this planet, the second nearest the sun."	Venus	Venus	True
1334	The Miller-Jaeschke technique is only applicable for numbers less than 3 times ten to the fourteenth power, while Rabin's method is only probabilistic. In Lucas' technique, it is necessary to find a fixed primitive root, but Pocklington's gives more flexibility. The converse of Wilson's theorem is another test of what mathematical property, whose most simplistic test, FTP, is the sieve of Eratosthenes?	primality or testing for prime numbers or equivalents	Arthur_Miller	False
1335	The site of the rare diseases Crigler-Najjar syndrome, Dubin-Johnson syndrome, and Budd-Chiari syndrome, it is surrounded by the Glisson capsule. This organ is divided into lobules which are hexagonal masses of tissue consisting of plates of cells surrounding a central vein. These lobules are also crisscrossed by sinusoids which also contain Kupffer cells. At each corner of the hexagon lies the portal veins, arteries, and bile ducts.  FTP, name this organ, producer of bile and plasma proteins and best known as the site of the diseases hepatitis and cirrhosis.	liver	Liver	True
1336	"At Andre Malraux's urging he asked Andre Hermant to design his museum at Nice.  That museum displays his illustrations of Shakespeare's The Tempest, Homer's Odyssey, lithographs published in Derriere le mirroir, and numerous Biblical stories showing his ""Biblical Message"" which included beliefs in communion with God through dance and music.  His The Soldier Drinks reflects his memories from the Russo-Japanese War, painted years before his first work of Orphic Cubism named by Blaise Cendrars, Paris Through a Window.  For 10 points, name this artist of Green Violinist and I and the Village."	Marc Chagall	Winslow_Homer	False
1337	"Burning Daylight presents its hero in various archetypal American roles, The Road concerns the author's experiences in London as a hobo, and he combined astral projection with a plea for prison reform in The Star Rover. His characters include Billy Roberts who fights for labor in Sonoma, Eugene Everhard who struggles against the oppressive ""Oligarchy,"" and John Barleycorn who tells of his experiences as an alcoholic. The Valley of the Moon and The Iron Heel flanked his autobiographical novel Martin Eden, and followed popular successes like The Son of the Wolf and The Sea Wolf. FTP identify this author most famous for adventure novels about the North, including White Fang and The Call of the Wild."	Jack London	Jack_London	True
1338	In nuclear physics, this model of the nucleus competes with the liquid drop model and mistranslations of its name resulted in somewhat bizarre German misunderstandings of its use. The computer algorithm of this name is an extension of insertion sort with bigger initial step size. In systems design, this is the name for the interface between the user and various operating system functions and a popular one is the Bourne Again variety for UNIX. In integral calculus, this method may be preferred over that of washers for finding the volume of a solid of revolution. FTP name the term that, in biology refers to the protective encasings secreted by mollusks.	shell	Native_Son	False
1339	"In one of his works, this philosopher distinguished between verbal and real propositions, while espousing his doctrine of enumerative induction.  He defended Richard Carlile in a series of famous letters  to the Chronicle, while his series of articles on ""The Spirit of the Age"" appeared in The Examiner in 1830.  Some of his political work was compiled into Considerations on Representative Government, while his reading of Richard Whately led to his System of Logic. His political liberalism culminated in his Subjection of Women. FTP, identify this philosopher, the author of On Liberty and Utilitarianism."	John Stuart Mill	John_Stuart_Mill	True
1340	"He mentions that his brother is Meili, and is taunted for hiding in the thumb of a glove, afraid to sneeze or fart for fear of Fjalar, in ""The Lay of Harbard."" The giantess Grid gives him an unbreakable staff and a pair of iron gloves during his quest to kill Gerrod, as well as Megingjarpar, his girdle. This father of Magni and Modi has to dress up as Freya to kill Thrym and recover his most prized possession, which was made by Brok and Eitri. FTP name this husband of Sif and son of Jord and Odin, the Norse god of thunder and lightning."	Thor	Odin	False
1341	"In the 1860's he composed several solo vocal ensembles including the Platen and Daumer lieder and most of the Magelone Romances.  Welcomed as a guest by Duke Georg III and presented with the Meiningen Commander's Cross, he dedicated the Gesang der Parzen to the duke.  His Klavierstucke characterize his  later works, mostly shorter character pieces.  Other works include ""The Song of Destiny,"" and he did variations for the St. Anthony chorale attributed to Haydn before composing a piece for the university of Breslau based on student songs, the Academic Festival Overture.  For 10 points, name this composer of four symphonies as well as the Christmas Oratorio and German Requiem."	Johannes Brahms	Joseph_Haydn	False
1342	In 1770 he attempted to buy into George Croghan's new colony of Vandalia, but the Boston Tea Party interrupted the plan.   He left his family estate at Pope's Creek after his father's death and became a surveyor, in which capacity he laid out the town of Belhaven, Virginia.  His diary of service under Robert Dinwiddie established his literary reputation, but his early military career came to a dismal end at Fort Necessity.  Although he had already led the Society of the Cincinnati he agreed to lead the army in 1798, having established his martial reputation at Trenton, Princeton, and Yorktown.  For 10 points, name this first President.	George Washington	Boston_Tea_Party	False
1343	"He reflected on modernization in such philosophical works as The Home and the World and The Religion of Man, the latter of which was delivered as a Hibbert lecture at Oxford. Late in his life he turned to painting many of the same scenes he had described in novels like The Wreck and Three Companions. His dramatic works include The Post Office, but he is best known for contemplative collections of love and beauty like Songs of Kabir, Fireflies , and The Crescent Moon. His ""Thou art the Ruler of all Minds"" was adopted as the Indian national anthem after Yeats helped his Gitanjali become a sensation. FTP identify this Bengali author, the first Asian Nobel Prize winner in literature."	Rabindranath Tagore	Gitanjali	False
1344	"Impaired function of this structure causes the abnormal growth poky strain of the Neurospora mold and the petite mutation in Saccharomyces results in its mutation.  MERRF disease also causes aberrant ones and Leber's hereditary optical neuropathy sufferers exhibit lesions within its genome. It contains a large channel-protein called porin, which is found outside of the large internal space known as the matrix.  For 10 points - name this structure that also contains a series of infoldings known as cristae, and which is often called the ""powerhouse of the cell."""	mitochondria or mitochondrion	Mutation	False
1345	"His last major book was a set of ""reflections on liberty, society, and government,"" Dominations and Powers.  He wrote about Lucretius, Dante, and Goethe in Three Philosophical Poets and divided reality into the four realms of matter, spirit, truth, and essence in his magnum opus.  His literary work includes a novel about Oliver Alden, The Last Puritan.  For 10 points - name this American philosopher of The Life of Reason and Scepticism and Animal Faith, who accused those who forget history of being condemned to repeat it."	George Santayana	Johann_Wolfgang_von_Goethe	False
1346	The RAG-1 gene is expressed only in the stages when recombination is taking place in these molecules.  This discovery first grew out of Susumo Tonegawa's experiments on recombination's cause for their diversity.  They exist as two sets of polypeptides, each present in duplicate and divided into a variable and constant region, and with the larger termed the heavy chain and the smaller termed the light chain.  In humans, they are divided into five classes referred to as immunoglobulins.  For 10 points - name these proteins that are produced as a result of an antigenic stimulus.	antibody or antibodies (accept immunoglobulins before they're mentioned)	Antibody	True
1347	"Strominger and Vafa derived this for extremal black holes by counting the degeneracy of BPS soliton bound states, confirming the Bekenstein-Hawking formula for it.  The Boltzmann relation for plasma particle density may be used to directly relate this property to the scalar potential and Gibbs' paradox is that, when derived classically, this state function is not extensive. For 10 points - what is this quantity loosely characterized as a measure of ""disorder"" in a system?"	entropy	Ludwig_Boltzmann	False
1348	His biographer Asser records that he first came to prominence in the service of Burgred and married Burgred's niece Ealhswith (eels-with).  His military success derived largely from a defense line of earth forts known as burhs and his decision to force citizens of adequate wealth to join the thegn (thain), a mounted infantry class.  He defeated the Danes at Edington in 877 and translated religious works like St. Gregory's Pastoral Care and Boethius' Consolation of Philosophy.  For 10 points - name this Anglo-Saxon king who kept the Danes at bay and sponsored scholarly works like the Anglo-Saxon Chronicle.	Alfred the Great	Alfred_the_Great	True
1349	Andrea del Castagno shows him with his left hand outstretched defiantly as the wind blows through his hair. Bernini depicts him in an action pose with a classical body standing over his belongings.  Verrocchio presents him as a wiry apprentice clad in a leathern doublet with a haughty grin.  He was the subject for the first freestanding nude statue since classical times where he was shown wearing a glowered hat and resting his leg on a trophy won in battle.  For 10 points, name this Biblical character represented in bronze by Donatello and stone by Michelangelo.	David	Gian_Lorenzo_Bernini	False
1350	"In a 1956 commentary, the author of the novel narrated by this character claimed that he was inspired by an ape who charcoaled a drawing of the bars of his cage.  Early on he recounts his marriage to Valeria, who ran with the Russian ex-colonel Taxovich.  A scholar and the author of ""The Proustian theme in a letter from Keats to Benjamin Bailey,"" he compiles a manual of French literature used by the sketchy Gaston Godin.  After stints living in Ramsdale and Beardsley, and after two cross-country trips, he leaves the ""fire of his loins"" with Dick Schiller and kills Clare Quilty.  For 10 points - name this older lover of Dolores Haze in Vladimir Nabokov's Lolita."	Humbert Humbert	Lolita	False
1351	In one of the forms of this, 6-Formylpterin enhances it by activating protein kinase C-prime, while it may be blocked by upregulation of HSP-70. It is initiated by the migration by Bak or Bax to Bcl-2 binding sites, or via binding to CD95 by Fas ligand. Exposure of peroxidized phosphatidylserine occurs in its final stages, after caspase 9 binds to cytochrome c from the mitochondrion and a certain protease activates factor-1, leading to degradation of chromosomal DNA and breakdown of cellular organelles into vesicles. FTP, name this process, which occurs in endometrial shedding during menstruation and finger formation, and is a form of programmed cell death.	apoptosis [a-po-TO-sis] (prompt on programmed cell death)	Apoptosis	True
1352	This author's characters include a fired teacher whose obsession with blue eyes stems from his father's drowning death. That character, Gimpei, seduces Hisako in his magic realist novel The Lake. Chikako's birthmark is the life-vision of Kikuji in his novel based on The Tale of Genji. Much of his work, including the story of Eguchi's club The House of the Sleeping Beauties, is classified as neo-sensualism, but he's best known for portraits of loneliness and beauty like The Izu Dancer. FTP, name this imagist novelist of Thousand Cranes, The Sound of the Mountain and The Snow Country, who won the Nobel Prize in 1968.	Yasunari Kawabata (accept the names in any order)	The_Tale_of_Genji	False
1353	This title names two paintings, one now housed in the Prado in Madrid and the other in the National Gallery in London.  The first is a triptych in which title object in the middle panel symbolizes humanity's greed while the left panel depicts Eden and the right Hell.  The second was based on sketches the artist had done earlier of his family's property in East Bergholt, Suffolk.  On the left is a copse of trees and a cottage while in the mid-left a dog watches the main action, two men driving a horse-drawn cart through a mill-pond.  For 10 points - identify these works by Hieronymus Bosch and John Constable.	The Haywain	The_Garden_of_Earthly_Delights	False
1354	"This philosopher's studies of indirect self-reference inspired and eponymous computer program that outputs its own source code. He argued that scientific theories are confirmed or disconfirmed as a whole, and that epistemology needs to be naturalized. With Pierre Duhem he advocated ontological relativity, and he argued for the indeterminacy of translation in Word and Object. Other important works include From a Logical Point of View and The Roots of Reference, but he is best known for attacking the analytic - synthetic distinction. For 10 points -- identify this author of ""Two Dogmas of Empiricism."""	Willard Van Orman Quine	Willard_Van_Orman_Quine	True
1355	The third invaded Italy twice and set up his tutor Gerbert of Aurillac [GURR-burt of OH-ree-ack] as Pope Sylvester II. The fourth was the son of Henry the Lion and was Welf candidate for the throne before being beaten out by the Hohenstaufen Frederick II. The second was married to the Byzantine princess Theophano.  The first, or the great, was responsible for an eponymous renaissance including such figures as Liutprand of Cremona, and was crowned by Pope John XII in 962 and trounced the Magyars at Lechfeld in 955. The first three of these emperors make up the bulk of the Saxon dynasty and shared -- for 10 points -- what short palindromic name with Chancellor Bismarck?	Otto	Otto_von_Bismarck	True
1356	This can be calculated with the Gibbs-Thompson or Young-Laplace equation, given the mean curvature of an interface. This quantity is related to the density change between liquid and vapor phases by the MacLeod Equation and it can be measured with a stalagmometer by the drop-weight method. Decreasing with increasing temperature, it is high in molecules exhibiting hydrogen bonding. Represented by gamma, FTP, identify this chemical concept, the cohesive force that must be overcome for a liquid drop to spread.	surface tension	Surface_tension	True
1357	Proteins destined for these structures are post-translationally modified to include mannose-6-phosphate residues on their N-linked oligosaccharides. The addition of the M6P tag to enzymes, such as aryl-sulfytase A, is being investigated as a potential treatment for diseases that affect these organelles, which diseases include metachromatic leukodystrophy and Fabry's disease.  Once inside these structures, the proteins and their M6P tags dissociate due to the environment created by vacuolar ATPase, which is closely related to the proton pump used in oxidative phosphorylation.  FTP, identify these organelles containing hydrolases that function best at a pH of about 5 and which are structurally similar to peroxisomes.	lysosomes	Peroxisome	False
1358	Their free swimming larvae are trocophores that propulse themselves using a row of cilia that encircles the middle of their bodies. Important structures in adult members of this phylum include a rasping tongue-like organ called the radula and excretory organs called nephridia, which remove nitrogenous wastes through a characteristic cilia-lined funnel called the nephrostome, which makes this animal phylum the earliest to evolve an efficient excretory system. Other important structures include gills, the mantle, and the muscular foot. FTP, name this animal phylum, members of which include the bivalves, gastropods, and cephalopods, and examples of which include snails and clams.	phylum Mollusca or mollusks	Mollusca	True
1359	In plasmas, the ambipolar version of this phenomenon is inversely proportional to the collision frequency, while the classical form is directly proportional, and is a random-walk process. A semi-empirical formula can be used to describe the Bohn version, while classical cases are governed by Fick's laws and Graham's law. FTP, what is this process in which gases mix due to the random motions of their molecules?	diffusion	Boyle's_law	False
1360	"This author's satirical style is seen in such stories as ""The Coach"" and ""Old-World Landowners"". His last days saw him come under the spell of the fanatical priest Konstantinovsky, who convinced him to burn the completed manuscript of the sequel to his best-known work. The early narratives collected in Evenings on a Farm Near Dikanka were followed by works like Taras Bulba, ""The Overcoat"" and The Inspector General. FTP, who is this Russian author of the novel Dead Souls?"	Nicolai Gogol	The_Overcoat	False
1361	Works by this philosopher include Reconstruction in Philosophy, Philosophy and Civilization, and The Quest for Certainty. He held that the various modes and forms of human activity are developed by humans to solve individual and social problems, a position he labeled instrumentalism. He is also known for his rejection of traditional teaching methods in favor of learning through experimentation and practice. FTP, who was this American philosopher, the author of The School and Society and Democracy and Education?	John Dewey	John_Stuart_Mill	False
1362	He stabbed the Branstock tree with the magical sword Balmung, stating that he who could pull it free would win in battle. He could make the dead speak, and once persuaded Baugi to bore a hole in his brother Sattung's cave so that he could obtain the mead of Kvasir. He hung pierced from the boughs of Yggdrasil by his spear Gungnir in order to obtain the runes that made him so wise. Owner of the ring Draupnir and the eight-legged horse Sleipnir, FTP, who was this leader of the Norse pantheon?	Odin	Yggdrasil	False
1363	A recent translation of this literary work used such diverse inspirations as Gerard Manley Hopkins, W.R. Rogers, and the translator's barely-literate aunt to create a version notable for its unique versification and juxtapositions with the original text, the result of twenty years work by Seamus Heaney. Consisting of over 3,000 lines, it opens with the mysterious arrival of Scyld Scefing from across the sea, and goes on to tell of the title figure's death fighting a dragon with Wiglaf fifty years after coming to the aid of Hrothgar. FTP, what is this Old English poem that includes the defeat of the monster Grendel?	Beowulf	Grendel	False
1364	"A medieval estate is depicted in one of its sections, entitled ""The Old Castle"", while the gardens of Paris are evoked in ""Tuileries"". Although originally written for the piano, Maurice Ravel created the famous orchestral transcription through which it is well known today. Several sections entitled ""Promenades"" depict the composer walking about contemplating paintings like ""The Hut on Fowl's Legs"" and ""Gnomus"" found at a showing of the art of Victor Hartmann. FTP, what is this piano suite by Modest Mussorgsky?"	Pictures at an Exhibition	Pictures_at_an_Exhibition	True
1365	One of the main stories about them concerns an arrow that pierced one of their members, Elatus, which ultimately resulted from the time Heracles was entertained by another of them named Pholus. The first of them was born from the union of Ixion and a cloud shaped like Hera. Inhabitants of Mount Pelion, one of them, Eurytion, attempted to rape Hippodamia at her wedding to Pirithous, leading to their famous battle with the Lapiths. Most famously represented by the tutor Chiron, FTP, what were these creatures with the bodies of horses and the heads of men?	Centaurs	Centaur	True
1366	"This quantity is conserved as a constant in the throttling process, and it is often convenient to express the energy that can be extracted from a turbine in terms of the change in this quantity across the turbine. If the only work done in a system is a change of volume at constant pressure, then the change in this quantity is exactly equal to the heat transferred to the system, leading it to sometimes be called ""heat content"" or ""total heat"". The term that differentiates Gibbs free energy from Helmholtz free energy, FTP, what is this quantity symbolized H, defined as the product of pressure and volume added to a system's internal energy?"	enthalpy	Gibbs_free_energy	False
1367	"A favorite saying of the protagonist is, ""When a man says yes, his chi says yes also,"" illustrating his sense of his own boldness and strength.  A critical moment in the novel occurs when the girl Ezinma is carried off by Chielo, the priestess of Agbala, who is followed by Ekwefi, the wife of the protagonist.  The protagonist loves Ezinma for her strength, favoring her over his son, Nwoye. Its main plot concerns the ways in which Okonkwo deals with the colonization of Nigeria. FTP, what is this classic 1958 novel by Chinua Achebe?"	Things Fall Apart	Things_Fall_Apart	True
1368	"His relief ""The Feast of Herod"" graces the front of the baptismal font in the Siena Cathedral.  He embedded pieces of colored glass in marble to create his unique Canteria, or ""Singing Gallery,"" for the Florence Cathedral.  According to Vasari, he could be observed repeatedly muttering, ""Speak, damn you; speak!"" while creating his sculpture of the prophet Habbakuk whose bald head has led it to be nicknamed the Zuccone. FTP, who was this great Early Renaissance sculptor who created the equestrian statue Gattemalata and the bronze David?"	Donatello (or Donato di Niccolo)	Donatello	True
1369	"One of his sculptures, entitled ""Fugit Amor,"" depicts a man and woman with backs pressed together, being torn apart by wind. One of his first major works, The Man With the Broken Nose, was followed 18 years later by The Little Man With the Broken Nose. He created controversy with the naturalism of The Age of Bronze, and went on to create large works incorporating many individual sculptures like The Gates of Hell and The Burghers of Calais. FTP, who was this man who created ""The Thinker""?"	Auguste Rodin	The_Gates_of_Hell	False
1370	His early works include the historical sagas Love's Comedy and The Pretenders, but of these it is his first production, 1850's Catiline, that is the only one still frequently performed. His first major play was the verse drama Brand, and he used Julian the Apostate as the inspiration for Emperor and Galilean.  His return to his homeland in 1891 sparked his last productive period, which resulted in John Gabriel Borkman and When We Dead Awaken.  FTP, name this author of The Master Builder and Ghosts, a Norwegian playwright best known for A Doll's House?	Henrik Ibsen	Ghost	False
1371	"Known by the nickname ""The American"" for his democratic sympathies as a student, he wrote criticism like the essay ""Hamlet and Don Quixote"" and stories like ""Mumu"", in which a serf is forced to kill his beloved pet dog.  His first novel was Rudin, but he did not gain success until the publication of A Sportsman's Sketches. Also known for the play A Month in the Country and the novel A Nest of Gentlefolk, he is best known for a novel about the student Bazarov that introduced the term ""nihilism.""  For 10 points, name this Russian author of Fathers and Sons."	Ivan Sergeevich Turgenev	Fathers_and_Sons_(novel)	False
1372	"He discussed theoretical psychology in The Sensory Order and attacked the idea that social scientists should adopt the methods of physical science in The Counter-Revolution of Science.  The cousin of Ludwig Wittgenstein, his book The Constitution of Liberty included the misleadingly titled postscript ""Why I am not a conservative,"" but this Austrian is best known for attacking Keynesian economics.  For 10 points-name this economist who shared the Nobel Prize with Gunnar Myrdal, the author of The Road to Serfdom."	Friedrich Hayek	Ludwig_Wittgenstein	False
1373	When the dwarf Alvis asked for the hand of this god's daughter Thrud, this god asked Alvis questions until the sun turned Alvis to stone.  He is the patron god of the lower classes, and receives them in the magnificent hall Bilskirnir.  To reach the Urdar fountain in the shade of Yggdrasil, he must wade through the rivers Kormt, Ormt, and Kerlaug, because he is not allowed to cross Bifr?st.  He is equipped with the belt Megin-gi?rd and the gauntlet Iarn-greiper, which allows him to wield his hammer Mj?lnir more effectively. FTP, who is this powerful Norse god of thunder?	Thor (accept Donar)	Yggdrasil	False
1374	"During WWI, he published Egotism in German Philosophy, having earlier produced an important critique of literature entitled Interpretations of Poetry and Religion. He stated that to judge anything beautiful is ""to establish an ideal"" in The Sense of Beauty and attempted to describe the human intellect in The Life of Reason. He later described his theory of immediately apprehended essences in his major works, Scepticism and Animal Faith and Realms of Being. FTP, who was this Spanish-born American philosopher and author of the novel The Last Puritan, known for his quote ""those who cannot remember the past are doomed to repeat it?"""	George Santayana	George_Santayana	True
1375	This author reminisced about his home life in the essay collections Nuptials and The Wrong Side and the Right Side.  Early in his career, he organized the avant-garde Th?tre de l'equipe and wrote plays like The Misunderstanding, while later plays include State of Siege and The Just Assassins. He contrasted moral rebellion with political rebellion in his essay The Rebel.  FTP, who was this French-Algerian author of the novels The Plague and The Stranger?	Albert Camus	The_stranger	False
1376	If it is expressed as a complex number, the imaginary part of this value is an indicator of absorptive properties.  Recent experiments have shown that it can be negative for some materials, which can lead to bizarre effects like reverse Doppler shifts.  Its dependence on wavelength gives rise to chromatic aberration and explains why a prism works.  It is often defined as the ratio of the speed of light in a vacuum to the speed of light in a given medium.  With a value of 1.33 for water, FTP, what is this index that measures the change of direction in a wavefront when passing from one medium to another?	index of refraction (or refractive index)	Speed_of_light	False
1377	This author was known for his intense preparation, as when he rode in a locomotive to research La Bete Humaine. He was fired from his job as a clerk in a publishing house when the autobiographical novel The Confession of Claude attracted the attention of Paris police. His best known works include L'Assomoir, The Soil, and The Dram Shop, and are found in a long series of naturalistic novels about life in the Second Empire called the Rougon Macquart series, which also contains Nana and Germinal. FTP, who was this French author perhaps best known for defending Alfred Dreyfus with his open letter J'accuse?	Emile Zola	Émile_Zola	False
1378	Members of this phylum have a three-layered body wall consisting of an epidermis, a gastrodermis, and a mesogloea (mess-o-GLEE-a).  Tentacles encircling the mouth are used for food capture, and also contain the highly distinctive nematocysts (knee-MAT-o-sists) that characterize the phylum.  They have two characteristic body forms, a sessile hydroid or polyp form that attaches to a substrate, and the motile medusa form that is common in the Physalia or Portuguese man-of-war.  FTP, name this invertebrate phylum of sea anemones, corals, and jellyfish.	Cnidaria or coelenterata (SEAL-ent-er-at-a)	Cnidaria	True
1379	It is revealed that the protagonist has decided to commit suicide on his 50th birthday, a fact learned while he reads a treatise about himself given to him by a strange man carrying a sandwich board and tray of almanacs. His education in the life of hedonism is aided by his affair with Maria. The climax occurs at a Fancy Dress Ball, where his friend Hermine and the saxophone player Pablo lead him into the Magic Theater, where he fails to laugh at the compromises life forces on humanity. FTP, what is this novel about Harry Haller, written by Hermann Hesse?	Steppenwolf	Steppenwolf_(novel)	True
1380	"At one point, the poet describes the archangel of the soul trapped between two visual images, soon after which a wail of ""eli eli lamma lamma sabacthani"" shivers the cities. The poet explains that he is not safe while his beloved Carl is ""in the total animal soup of time"". Other parts describe down and out Mensa-types slumming in the black part of town looking for heroin while ""Anglehead hipsters burn for ancient heavenly connections to starry dynamos."" FTP, what is this poem explaining that the poet has seen the destruction of the best minds of his generation, a masterpiece of the Beat Movement by Allan Ginsburg?"	Howl	The_Starry_Night	False
1381	The protagonist of this opera exuberantly downs champagne while dressing for a wedding feast he has planned for his peasants, and he later barely escapes the drawn sword of Ottavio, who is responding to a girl's cries for help. The title character thwarts a posse bent on lynching him using a disguise that allows him to issue bogus directions and assault Masetto, who is nursed by Zerlina. After he contemptuously waves Elvira out of his chamber, he and Leporello witness the arrival of a statue of the murdered Commendatore, who drags the title figure to hell. FTP, what is this opera by Mozart about the legend of Don Juan?	Don Giovanni	Don_Giovanni	True
1382	"One part of this book suggests that since Naaman suffered to bow in the house of Rimmon, Christians should outwardly yield to a non-Christian sovereign. The author claims that Romulus was the first saint in a chapter entitled ""Of What Is Necessary For a Man's Reception into The Kingdom of Heaven."" The claims that our thoughts are deterministically governed by the law of association and that life is merely the motion of limbs are found in its first section ""Of Man"", while later the author holds that obedience to moral rules is necessary for peaceable living. Subtitled The Matter, Form, and Power of a Commonwealth, Ecclesiastical and Civil, FTP, what is this masterpiece of Thomas Hobbes?"	Leviathan	Leviathan_(Hobbes_book)	True
1383	One of his forms is a union of himself and his consort in one body known as Ardhanarisvara, while other manifestations include Dakshinamurthi and Nataraja, the cosmic dancer. The Ganges flows through his hair, breaking its fall to the earth. He has imparted his immense knowledge of the arts to his sacred mount Nandi, which always appears opposite the main sanctuary of his temples. In private shrines he is generally worshipped in the form of the lingam, a phallus that is fixed upon a pedestal. The father of Skandi and Ganesh, FTP, who is this god of the Hindu trinity, known as the Destroyer?	S(h)iva	Ganges	False
1384	Along with reducing sugars, they are detected by Fehling's test. They can be produced by adding a mild reducing agent to an acid chloride, through a Rosenmund reduction, or by the oxidation of a primary alcohol. Adding a Tollens reagent to this type of compound will leave a silver mirror coating on the flask.  The lightest one is used in making Bakelite and in preserving specimens. Given names ending in the suffix -al, FTP, name these compounds that have a hydrogen bonded to their carbonyl group, unlike ketones.	aldehydes	Ketone	False
1385	"The opening chapter of this novel closes with the narrator dreaming that he and his father are at a circus where his father refuses to laugh at the clowns.  The narrator gets a scholarship after giving a speech to thunderous applause, despite the controversy over the words ""social responsibility"" and the blood he swallowed after Tatlock threw him blindfolded into a boxing ring with 9 other boys.  Its climax comes at a race riot in Harlem, prompting the unnamed narrator to live in the sewers, where he writes the book.  FTP, what is this 1952 novel, the best-known work by Ralph Ellison?"	Invisible Man	Invisible_Man	True
1386	For a uniformly magnetized sample, where H is the magnetic field strength, this quantity can be defined as F - HMV.  In an ordinary system, its proper variables are temperature and pressure, and it equals F + PV, where F is the Helmholtz free energy.  For a reaction, if the change in this quantity is negative, then the reaction will be spontaneous.  FTP, often symbolized by either phi or G, identify this type of free energy named for an American physicist.	Gibbs free energy (or Gibbs potential)	Gibbs_free_energy	True
1387	Fuseli and Corot both painted scenes from this play. The rivals of the title character include Menteith, Caithness, Lennox, and Siward, who march their armies to Birnam Wood and then toward Dunsinane.  FTP, name this shortest and bloodiest of Shakespeare's tragedies, a play set in Scotland.	Macbeth	Henry_Fuseli	False
1388	"Influenced by Blake's ""The Sick Rose,"" he wrote the poem ""The Force that Through the Green Fuse Drives the Flower,"" which won him the publication of his first collection, 18 Poems. Some of his notable short stories are collected in Adventures in the Skin Trade. The oft-quoted line ""After the first death, there is no other"" comes from his poem ""A Refusal to Mourn the Death by Fire of a Child in London,"" part of the collection Deaths and Entrances, which also contains his poem ""Fern Hill."" FTP, name this Welsh poet of ""Do Not Go Gentle into That Good Night."""	Dylan Thomas	William_Blake	False
1389	"His ""Essay on the influence of the Low Price of Corn"" discusses theories that would lead him to oppose the Corn Laws as a Member of Parliament. He created a stir with his tract The High Price of Bullion, while his best work begins with comparisons of value in use and in exchange, and reasons that the interests of society are opposed by the interests of landowners, an idea central to his theories of economic rent. FTP, name this founder of the classical school of economics who proposed ideas like the iron law of wages in The Principles of Political Economy and Taxation."	David Ricardo	The_Wealth_of_Nations	False
1390	The Landau-Lifschitz-Bloch Equation models this phenomenon's onset. It develops in stepwise fashion via the Barkhausen Effect and leads to Ising-like behavior at low temperatures. Materials exhibiting this property display magnetostriction, leading to the low vibration of gadolinium metals under high applied fields. Appearing below the Curie Temperature, FTP, what is this type of magnetism in which net magnetic moments line up so that magnetization persists after the removal of the applied field, named for the fact that iron exhibits it?	"ferromagnetism (prompt on ""domain formation"" or equivalent)"	Ferromagnetism	True
1391	Willy Lott is the owner of the building shown in this painting, in which a figure makes his way through thick hedges along the river at right, below which a boat is concealed. Four figures are plying their trade in a meadow across the river Stour opposite a cottage behind Flatford Mill, in front of which a small dog watches the main action. FTP, what is this famous painting depicting two men attempting to guide a large ox-drawn cart through the water, the masterpiece of John Constable?	The Hay Wain	The_Hay_Wain	True
1392	"This poem's third section contains a description of the ""Unreal City"", where the Smyrna merchant Mr. Eugenides asks the poet to lunch.  Other sections describe a reading of tarot cards by Madame Sosostris and the drowning of Phlebas the Phoenician. Introduced by a quote from the Satyricon, it is broken up into sections entitled ""The Fire Sermon"", ""Death by Water"", ""What the Thunder Said"", ""A Game of Chess"", and ""Burial of the Dead"". FTP, name this poem that begins by labeling April the cruelest month, perhaps the most famous poem by T.S. Eliot."	"""The Waste Land"""	The_Waste_Land	True
1393	"In spite of this composer's anti-Semitism, the fourth work in his Opus 17 has come to be known as ""The Jew"". He incorporated the cello into his early chamber work Grand Duo on Themes from Robert the Devil, but is better known for piano works, including a famous Fantasy-Impromptu that he disliked so much he refused to have it published. He gained fame for his intimate drawing-room performances of works like the ""Military"" and ""Heroic"" Polonaises and his Second Piano Sonata, containing his famous funeral march. FTP, who was this French composer of Polish descent responsible for the ""Minute"" Waltz?"	Frederic Chopin (or Fryderyk Franciszek)	Piano_sonatas_(Beethoven)	False
1394	"Late works by this author include a collection of short pieces called Wolfert's Roost, a five-volume life of George Washington, a Life of Oliver Goldsmith, and a book on Mahomet and His Successors. Great hostility greeted Tales of a Traveler, although the earlier work Bracebridge Hall had been well received. His time as a diplomat in Spain inspired the Chronicle of the Conquest of Granada and a series of Spanish legends entitled The Alhambra. FTP, who was this author famous for A History of New York and The Sketch Book of Geoffrey Crayon, the latter of which contained ""The Legend of Sleepy Hollow""?"	Washington Irving	The_Legend_of_Sleepy_Hollow	False
1395	"He would meet his end at the hands of Queen Tomyris, who stuffed his head in a jar of blood to satisfy his craving for it. He was ordered exposed as a baby because his grandfather Astyages dreamed that the shoot from his daughter's genitals would overshadow his empire, but in a reversal he was allowed to live. He did in fact supplant Astyages, and went on to defeat the Lydians at Pteria and Thymbra before conquering Nabonidus and taking Babylon. FTP, name this man who overthrew the Medians and established the Persian empire, nicknamed ""the Great"""	Cyrus II or Cyrus the Great	Babylon	False
1396	A key early development in this battle was the failure of Ewell's Second Corps to storm the Union forces on the first evening of fighting. The day before, Pettigrew's North Carolina Brigade encountered Federal cavalry at the site, but Lee had already ordered 70,000 troops in that direction. Much of the fighting centered on elevated positions like Culp's Hill, Seminary Ridge, and Cemetery Hill, and saw Meade fail to follow up on Lee's retreat, which came after Longstreet reluctantly ordered Pickett's Charge. FTP, what was this February 1863 battle in Pennsylvania, the site of a subsequent address by Lincoln?	Gettysburg	Battle_of_Gettysburg	True
1397	One story tells of his encounter with the nymph Carna, who beguiled suitors into a cave but ran away after promising to make love to them. However, this god caught her, after which she granted him her favors, for which he gave her the power to chase away vampires. His son Tiberinus gave the river Tiber its name after drowning in it. After Tarpeia betrayed the Romans to the Sabines, he saved the Romans by flooding the gates; appropriate, since he was the god of gates and doors, as well as beginnings and endings. FTP, who was this Roman god best known for having two faces?	Janus	Epistle_to_the_Romans	False
1398	The major commercial use of this gas is in the production of azelaic acid, and it is frequently produced commercially by the silent discharge method. Typically measured in Dobson units, in its pure form it is an unstable, faintly bluish gas with a characteristically penetrating odor. It can be formed by lightning and by some electric motors and generators, but more frequently, it is made by the action of ultraviolet light on oxygen. FTP, what is this gas with formula O3 that composes a protective layer of the atmosphere?	ozone	Oxygen	False
1399	"Early in his career, this artist executed a series of powerful engravings, notably The Frugal Repast, while his contributions to the realm of sculpture included Head of a Bull, Metamorphosis, made using the seat and handlebars of a bicycle. Images like the Dying Horse, the Weeping Woman, and the Minotaur predominate in his late work, which includes The Charnel House, while his early efforts, like La Vie, The Family of Saltimbanques, and Les Demoiselles d'Avignon, are often divided into periods like the ""Rose"" and ""Blue"" Periods. FTP, who was this Spanish painter probably best known for Guernica?"	Pablo Picasso	Guernica_(Picasso)	False
1400	"He included the ghost story ""Wandering Willie's Tale"" in his novel Redgauntlet, and wrote a series of novels collectively entitled Chronicles of the Canongate to pay off his debts. His early writing consisted of poems like Harold the Dauntless, The Bridal of Triermain, Marmion, and The Lay of the Last Minstrel, but by 1810 he began writing historical novels, including The Legend of Montrose, The Fortunes of Nigel, The Bride of Lammermoor, and Guy Mannering. FTP, who was this Scottish writer best known for ""Waverly"" novels like Rob Roy and Ivanhoe?"	Walter Scott	Walter_Scott	True
1401	Early in his reign, he ended the war he inherited with Russia by the Treaty of Stolbova, but soon found himself embroiled in a long defensive war to protect his throne from Sigismund III. He concluded the Treaty of Altmark, gaining a six-year truce with Sigismund in order to oppose the Catholic forces that he defeated at the Lech and Breitenfeld before being mortally wounded in his victory at Lutzen. FTP, who was this brilliant military commander, the king of Sweden from 1611-32?	Gustavas Adolphus (or Gustav II Adolf)	Treaty_of_Versailles	False
1402	"Late in this novel, the protagonist grieves after stabbing to death a Frenchman named Gerard Duval. He and friends like the locksmith Tjaden and the peasant Detering are treated cruelly by Himmelstoss, a training instructor known as ""The Terror of Klosterberg"". He and his schoolmates have enlisted in the army under the influence of the patriotic schoolteacher Kantorek and experience the horrors of World War I. Ending with the death of Paul Baumer, FTP, what is this war novel by Erich Maria Remarque?"	All Quiet on the Western Front	All_Quiet_on_the_Western_Front	True
1403	A generalization of this law to three dimensions due to Cauchy incorporates a 6 by 6 matrix known as the compliance matrix. Its constant differs for each material, and can be approximated by multiplying the mass of the atom by the bulk modulus and dividing by the density times the square of the atomic spacing of the material. It was originally stated as F equals k times x, but is also known in a generalization stating that stress is directly proportional to strain. FTP, what is this law of elasticity stating that the amount a spring deforms is proportional to the applied force?	Hooke's law	Augustin-Louis_Cauchy	False
1404	This composer's early struggles ended with the publication of his Moravian Duets. He experienced great success with his less-ambitious works like the Scherzo Capriccioso and the Gypsy Songs, but his 10 operas, including Rusalka, were less successful. Although he composed the American String Quartet and the Dumky Trio, today he is known for introducing folk melodies into classical music, notably in the Slavonic Dances. FTP, who was this great Bohemian composer whose 9th symphony is known as the New World Symphony?	Antonin Dvorak	Symphony_No._9_(Dvořák)	False
1405	A blow to the loyalists in this battle came in the initial skirmishing with the death of John Howard, Duke of Norfolk. Early in the day, the king's forces took a superior position on Ambien Hill to oppose the contender to the crown, who had landed at Milford Haven 15 days earlier. The tide turned with the attack by William Stanley on the king's left flank, after which the king was unhorsed and killed in a bog. Fought on August 22, 1485, FTP, what was this victory for Henry Tudor over Richard III, the final battle of the Wars of the Roses?	Bosworth Field	Battle_of_Bosworth_Field	True
1406	Examples of this type of mythological creature include the Japanese god Ryujin and Long, one of the four spiritual creatures of Chinese myth. Ahura Mazda's son Atar battled one named Azhi Dahaka, while Indra defeated one named Vritra. Tiamat is one from Babylonian myth, while the best-known example from classical myth is probably Ladon, who guarded the golden apples. FTP, what are these huge winged lizards who often have the ability to breathe fire?	dragon (prompt on wyrm or firedrake)	Indra	False
1407	This country claims a number of small islands, including Europa, the Glorioso Islands, and Tromelin. Home to the Betsiboka and Sofia rivers, it consists of a low coastal strip surrounding central highlands that are home to the Ankaratra Mountains and Mount Maromokotro, its highest point. The people include those of African and Malayo-Indonesian descent, most of whom speak Malagasy. With capital at Antananarivo, FTP, what is this African republic found on the world's fourth largest island?	Democratic Republic of Madagascar	Madagascar	True
1408	"This author advocated a spare, impressionistic style in the essay ""The Novel Demeuble"". Her dissatisfaction with modern society is seen in late works like the three tales comprising 1932's Obscure Destinies and the novel Lucy Gayheart, with the latter's grim ending standing in contrast to an early work on a similar theme, The Song of the Lark. FTP, who is this author of Death Comes for the Archbishop, My Antonia, and O Pioneers?"	Willa Cather	A_Room_with_a_View	False
1409	In the bottom right of this painting can be seen a young girl dressed in red with her left foot on a dog lying on the floor. On the back wall, the king and queen are reflected in a mirror next to an open doorway, in which a man in black is seen peering at the main scene. To the left, the artist is looking at the viewer while working on the huge canvas before him, while the front center is dominated by the Princess Margarita and her attendants. FTP, what is this 1656 painting, one of the masterpieces of Diego Velazquez?	Las Meninas  or The Maids of Honor	Las_Meninas	True
1410	This artist's early period is marked by works like Self-Portrait with Felt Hat, Still Life With Shoes, and Portrait of Pere Tanguy. Late works like Wheat Field With Crows and Village Street in Auvers were created while he lived in Auvers-sur-Oise to be near one of his subjects, Dr. Gachet. Red Vineyard at Arles was the only work sold during his lifetime, but today he is known for works like The Night Cafe, The Potato Eaters, and Starry Night. FTP, who was this artist of Self-Portrait with Bandaged Ear?	Vincent van Gogh	The_Starry_Night	False
1411	"Poems like ""Hibiscus on the Sleeping Shores"" and ""Le Monocle de Mon Oncle"" are typical of this poet's early work, characterized by an intricate style and tropical imagery, also seen in the poem ""Sunday Morning"". Collections like Owl's Clover, Ideas of Order, Harmonium, and The Man With the Blue Guitar established him as an influential poet despite only writing in his spare time. FTP, who was this 20th century American poet, author of ""Thirteen Ways of Looking at a Blackbird"" and ""The Emperor of Ice Cream""?"	Wallace Stevens	Thirteen_Ways_of_Looking_at_a_Blackbird	False
1412	The Debye-Sears effect concerns materials exhibiting this effect that are placed in a liquid and vibrated at a fixed frequency, in which they set up acoustic waves. Trigonal crystals exhibiting it are especially useful in the eponymous oscillator. The reverse version of the effect is also useful, and occurs when a potential difference is applied to materials that exhibit it, such as barium titanate, Rochelle salts, and quartz. FTP, what is this effect, the generation of a potential difference in certain non-conducting crystals that are subjected to stress?	piezoelectricity or piezoelectric effect	Quartz	False
1413	This author's work The Meeting at Telgte is a retelling of the Thirty Years War, while plays include Flood and Max. He wrote essays decrying reunification that were collected in the volume The Future of German Democracy, and fictionalized in novels like The Call of the Toad, but he is probably better known for novels like Local Anesthetic and The Flounder. FTP, identify this writer of the Danzig Trilogy, which begins with the novel The Tin Drum?	Gunter Grass	Günter_Grass	False
1414	"Also known as Khenty-Imentiu, or ""chief of the westerners,"" some Pyramid Texts give him a daughter in the form of a celestial serpent who purifies the monarch. This deity's cult was centered at Cynopolis, and priests of his were responsible for the Opening of the Mouth ceremony. He held steady the scales that measured mortal hearts against the feather of Ma'at, leading to Osiris the souls of those who passed the test. FTP, identify this Egyptian god of embalmings and death, often depicted as a jackal."	Anubis	Osiris	False
1415	"In the second part of this poem, the author examines at great length the pentangle emblazoned on the protagonist's shield that symbolizes the virtues to which he is dedicated. It consists of 2,530 lines of alliterative verse whose stanzas all end with a metrical scheme known as the ""bob and wheel"". The protagonist exchanges kisses for the animals slain by Lord Bercilak during his stay at Bercilak's castle, but deceitfully keeps a girdle that will protect him when he arrives at Green Chapel to complete a bargain that began when he beheaded a knight who burst in upon a celebration at King Arthur's court. FTP, what is this great Middle English poem by the ""Pearl"" poet about a knight of the Round Table?"	Sir Gawain and the Green Knight	Sir_Gawain_and_the_Green_Knight	True
1416	"This author of Islam Observed and the essay collection Local Knowledge objected to structuralism, calling it ""a sort of high-tech rationalism"", and often focused his writings on the revolution in what he called ""the way we think about the way we think"". Beginning with his fieldwork in Java and Bali in the 1950s, he analyzed the role of symbols in society in works like The Religion of Java and Person, Time, and Conduct in Bali. FTP, who is the influential U.S. anthropologist perhaps best known for his essay collection The Interpretation of Cultures?"	Clifford Geertz	Java	False
1417	The strength of this property is often measured in units of Newtons per meter at 20 degrees Celsius, giving values like .028 for toluene, .425 for mercury, and .0728 for water. Symbolized gamma, it is usually weak in organic liquids like benzene and alcohols. It results from intermolecular forces, in that a molecule on the interior of a liquid experiences interactions with other molecules equally from all sides, whereas a molecule on the outside is only affected by those below it. FTP, what is this property of a liquid responsible for capillary action and the formation of liquid drops and meniscuses?	surface tension	Liquid_crystal	False
1418	He wrote about his experiences in the Spanish Civil War in Beneath Your Clear Shadow and Other Poems. His idea that existential alienation can be overcome through erotic love and artistic creativity was a recurring theme in prose works like The Pears of the Elm, The Bow and the Lyre, and The Monkey Grammarian. His poetry collections Luna silvestre and Sun Stone helped him win the 1990 Nobel Prize in Literature. FTP, who is this Mexican writer, the author of The Labyrinth of Solitude?	Octavio Paz	Octavio_Paz	True
1419	"One of this author's late works was the uncharacteristically comical novel The Paper Men. He won a Booker Prize for Rites of Passage, the first volume of his ""sea trilogy"" To the Ends of the Earth. He is better known for works like The Spire and Pincher Martin, highly symbolic works that helped him win the Nobel Prize in 1983. FTP, who was this English novelist who told of characters like Jack, Ralph, and Piggy in his first novel, The Lord of the Flies?"	William Golding	Lord_of_the_Flies	False
1420	"This novel's epigram is taken from Romans 12:19, and reads ""Vengeance is mine ... saith the Lord."" Stephen is the title character's brother, and is married to Dolly, while Constantine falls in love with Dolly's younger sister Kitty. However, Kitty is interested in the wealthy Count Alexei Vronsky, who is in turn obsessed with the title character, who leaves her husband and child to be with Vronsky, only to throw herself under a train due to fears that he has lost interest in her. FTP, what is this novel by Leo Tolstoy?"	Anna Karenina	Anna_Karenina	True
1421	"The influence of this school of philosophy grew in part from Panaetius of Rhodes' travels with Scipio Aemilianus. It was rigorously systematic, especially in its definitive systematization by Chrysippus of Soli. They believed that ""logos"" was the universal animating principle and that a ""life consistent with Nature"" is the goal of life, to be achieved through wisdom and the restraint with which the term is now associated. Founded by Zeno of Citium, FTP, what is this ancient philosophy associated with Seneca and Marcus Aurelius whose name is now used to describe one who is impassive, especially in the face of difficulties?"	Stoicism	Stoicism	True
1422	"A central tenet of this faith is the Ik Oknar, a statement emphasizing unity with the Primal Being. A traditional greeting shared among its adherents is ""Waheguru Ji Ka Khalsa, Waheguru Ji Ki Fateh."" Its members are initiated into Armit and must wear the five articles of faith at all times. Known as great warriors, their members have been an important part of the Indian army, but the desire for sovereignty led some of their members to kill Indira Gandhi. Taking its name from the Sanskrit for 'disciple', FTP, name this Indian religion that traces it origins to Guru Nanak."	Sikhism	Guru_Nanak	False
1423	His prose poems exploring urban, bourgeois life were often written from the perspective of the flaneur, an idea elucidated in his essay The Painter of Modern Life. He got his start introducing the works of Poe to Europe through his classic French translations. His decadent lifestyle led to his premature death a year before the publication of his ambitious poetry collection Paris Spleen, but he remains best known for a controversial collection whose use of subtle nuances and striking images laid the foundations for modern poetry.  FTP, who was this author of The Flowers of Evil?	Charles Baudelaire	Edgar_Allan_Poe	False
1424	"The ""Children's Chorus"" is a feature of this opera, whose ""Card Trio"" is sung while the title figure draws the ace of spades, symbolizing her impending death. Act II opens at the inn of Lillas Pastia, where the title figure is introduced to Escamillo, leading to a rivalry for her between Escamillo and a corporal who throws away his career and his relationship with the chaste Micaela, and who kills the protagonist when she rejects him for the bullfighter. FTP, what is this opera about a gypsy employed in a cigarette factory, the masterpiece of Georges Bizet?"	Carmen	Carmen	True
1425	His late interest in photography can be seen in works with Durieu like Draped Model and in his own portrait done by Nadar.  Late works like The Hunt show the Romantic spirit he exemplified his whole artistic life, as seen in his painting of Paganini, the Death of Sardanapalus, and The Massacre at Chios  FTP, name this French artist, most famous for Liberty Leading the People.	Eugene Delacroix	Niccolò_Paganini	False
1426	"With Merleau-Ponty, this thinker founded the journal Les Temps Modernes, which he edited. Three years after the publication of his main philosophical work, he produced the essay Existentialism is a Humanism, in which he continued his analysis of man's attempts to deal with reality through what he called ""bad faith"". He held that man is nothing at birth and condemned to be free, and distinguished two types of being, ""being-in-itself"" and ""being-for-itself"", in 1943's Being and Nothingness. FTP, who was this French thinker who also expressed his existentialist views in the novel Nausea and the play No Exit?"	Jean-Paul Sartre	Existentialism	False
1427	This author gained financial success with the novel Change. Famously described as a racist by Chinua Achebe, English was his third language, and his lack of fluency is shown in An Outcast of the Islands.  He collaborated with Ford Maddox Ford on several novels, but is better known for individual efforts like The Secret Agent, Nostromo, and Lord Jim, while his best known work is a tale told on the Nellie by Charlie Marlow.  FTP, name this author of Heart of Darkness.	Joseph Conrad	Henry_Ford	False
1428	"In the book from which it was adapted, the character in this opera who claims to be impoverished student Gualtier Mald?was originally Fran?is I, king of France.  However, censors wouldn't allow such an overtly political statement, and further denied use of the proposed title ""The Curse.""  Also not chosen for the title was Le roi s'amuse, the title of the Victor Hugo work from which it was taken.  The unhappy title character recalls a curse after his daughter is abducted, after she loses her virginity, and after she sacrifices herself to save the libertine Duke of Mantua.  FTP, name this Verdi opera about a hunchbacked court jester."	Rigoletto	Giuseppe_Verdi	False
1429	"Its dedication is actually a letter to the author's patron.  Chapter 15 attacks the Aristotelian concept of living a ""good life,"" because as the author states in the concluding part fortune more important than virtue.  In Chapter 19, Septimius Severus is appraised as an emulator of ""the lion and the fox,"" right after Alexander VI is criticized for his relationship with his mother and perceived effeminacy.  Its famous edicts include the notion that it is better to be feared than loved, and more famously, the end justifies the means.  FTP, name this philosophical tract by Machiavelli."	The Prince	The_Prince	True
1430	This biphasic substance damages neurons of the superior frontal cortex, Purkinje cells of the cerebellum, and pyramidal cells of the hippocampus.  Abstinence from it causes an increase in cortical gray matter and a decrease in ventricular volume while its breakdown products, aldehydes, diminish.  Chronic use causes thiamine deficiency and Korsakoff's syndrome.  Raising the number of GABA-A receptors, it opens chloride channels and causes postsynaptic inhibition.  FTP, name this substance not to be used when driving.	alcohol	Cerebellum	False
1431	When this writer encountered Andrew Yaphe cleaning his teeth in a restroom, he gave Andrew a frightened look and walked out.  Doubling the Point is a book of his essays and other works include Age of Iron and The Master of St. Petersburg.  His most recent work is a second installation of autobiography, Youth:  Scenes from Provincial Life II.  His first novel, Dusklands, was followed by In the Heart of the Country, which is less famous than Waiting for the Barbarians.  FTP, name this two-time winner of the Booker Prize for The Life and Times of Michael K and Disgrace.	J.M. Coetzee	Saint_Petersburg	False
1432	"His vocal reading of Emily Bronte's poem ""Remembrance"" is lauded in another writer's autobiography A Backward Glance.  Another anecdote relates how this writer gave the idea for the novel Trilby to George DuMaurier.  His own critical writings include French Poets and Novelists and a series of prefaces to the New York Edition revisions of his earlier novels.  Some of those novels include Watch and Ward, The Spoils of Poynton, and The Princess Casamassima.  FTP, name this American novelist of The American, The Golden Bowl, and The Portrait of a Lady."	Henry James (prompt on just last name)	Henry_James	True
1433	It was the dominant phylum in the late Precambrian period.  Creatures in it phylum have bodies consisting of an internal gastrovascular cavity, a soft, pliable middle body layer known as the mesoglea, and an external dermis.  Its members often live in two phases, a sessile, asexual polyp and a free-moving, sexual medusa.  FTP, name this phylum that includes hydra and jellyfish.	Cnidaria or Coelenterata	Cnidaria	True
1434	"In the final section its author writes ""No false doctrine is part of philosophy,"" and rails against the elements of ""heathen"" religions like demonology, disembodied spirits, and exorcism.  By then the author has articulated his concept of a ""Confederacy of Deceivers,"" in the section on the ""Kingdom of Darknesse.""  Other parts of its four books including ""Of Man"" introduce the author's notion of an ideal commonwealth ruled by a sovereign.  FTP, name this 1651 text, the masterwork of Thomas Hobbes."	Leviathan	Leviathan_(Hobbes_book)	True
1435	One use is to determine the electric potential need to maintain a given ion concentration across a membrane.  Some pH meters use it to determine the concentration of hydrogen ions by measuring the voltage on an electrode.  However, it is most often used in the other direction, when ion concentrations are known, and electrode potential is not.  FTP, identify this equation, namesake of a German physical chemist, which predicts cell voltage under non-standard conditions of temperature and concentration.	Nernst equation	Voltage	False
1436	"Of his short stories only a few have been translated, except for those like  in ""Hungry Stones"" and ""Broken Ties.""  His adolescent love can be seen in The Crescent Moon, and his three major plays of the era include The Post Office, The King of the Dark Chamber, and Chitra.  Sadhana is an address on life and its realization that uses a common them for this writer, whose Western reputation was largely made by William Butler Yeats.  FTP, name this author of Gitanjali, an Indian winner of the Nobel in Literature."	Rabindranath Tagore	Gitanjali	False
1437	"Like Henry James he wrote on the ""art of the novel,"" though his version didn't appear in English until 1988.  His one-act play The Owners of the Keys followed his early work in poetry resulting in such collections as Man: A Broad Garden, The Last May, and Monology.  His second novel, Life is Elsewhere, preceded his 1985 Jerusalem Prize for Literature for novels like The Joke and The Farewell Party.  FTP, name this Czech author of The Book of Laughter and Forgetting and The Unbearable Lightness of Being."	Milan Kundera	The_Unbearable_Lightness_of_Being	False
1438	The Wadsworth-Emmons-Horner reaction is a commonly used variant of this reaction.  Two intermediates are produced during it: a dipolar charge-separated species called a betaine [BAY-tuh-een] and a four-membered heterocycle that breaks down to give the final products.  It uses a phosphonate carbanion, but it can be conducted using sulfur ylides, though epoxides result.  FTP, name this reaction between a phosphorus ylide [ILL-ide] and a carbonyl, which won its namesake the 1979 Nobel in chemistry.	Wittig reaction	Wittig_reaction	True
1439	"After playing with for two years with the Navy band in Hawaii, he toured with ""Cleanhead"" Vinson before stints with the Joe Webb Band and the King Kolax Band.  One of his later recordings, an album of duets with just himself and a drummer entitled Interstellar Space, differed from early group recordings headed by him as in Lush Life and Giant Steps.  However, his best known works are the piece ""My Favorite Things"" and the album A Love Supreme.  FTP, name this jazz musician who, like Charlie Parker, was known for his mastery of the saxophone."	John William Coltrane	Charlie_Parker	False
1440	Reactions that proceed from two competing mechanisms may not follow this principle. Related to the Maxwell Distribution Law by a factor of the exponential of Avogadro's Number, the assumption that the collision rate and steric factor will remain constant produces this equation's namesake pre-exponential factor.  This in turn determines the units of the rate constant. FTP, name this kinetic equation relating the temperature and activation energy of a reaction, named for a Swedish chemist.	Arrhenius Equation	Arrhenius_equation	True
1441	"His belief that the ethical spirit attempts to relieve the pain of others only because it sees all pain as its own is the subject of his The Basis of Morality.  He defined frustration as the stubbornness that results when the intellect is displaced by the determination of spirit in a series of Essays of Parerga and Paralipomena.  The root of his belief is the choice that man must make between a boring or painful existence, guided by a variety of the Kantian ""thing-in-itself.""  FTP, name this philosopher of pessimism, who expounded his original thesis in The World as Will and Idea."	Arthur Schopenhauer	Arthur_Schopenhauer	True
1442	"This composer's poetry-inspired song cycles include The House of Life, and On Wenlock Edge, which incorporate verses from the poems of Dante Gabriel Rossetti and A Shropshire Lad.  While organist at Lambeth, he collected the folk melodies that would become ""Shepherds of the Delectable Mountains"" and Tudor material that influenced his most famous work.  His opera Sir John in Love contains his famous arrangement, Fantasia on Greensleeves, but, FTP, what English nationalist composer is equally well known for his Fantasia on a Theme by Thomas Tallis."	Ralph Vaughan-Williams	A_Shropshire_Lad	False
1443	"His poems include an admonishment to a Spaniard for brushing his teeth with piss, a warning to a napkin-thief, a tirade against an  over-priced prostitute, and a vicious warning to two former friends that he will orally and anally rape them.   He also wrote a masturbation joke addressed to Cato the Younger and implied that Caesar was a homosexual. His more traditional works include an ode on his brother's tomb, containing the words, ""frater, ave atque vale.""  However, he is best known for his love poems which include a defense of his lover against Quintia and a poem about her sparrow.  FTP identify this Roman poet who loved Lesbia."	Catullus	Catullus	True
1444	"His aesthetics was based around his concept of ""consummation,"" whereby an experience becomes a unified whole.  He believed that time-honored dualisms of philosophy such as ""mind-body"" were too limiting and disliked the word ""truth"" because it was too static, instead preferring the term ""warranted assertability.""  Often publishing in popular journals because his view of democracy required philosophers to be public figures, he wrote such works as School and Society.  FTP, name this Pragmatist author of Democracy and Education best known for his interest in education."	John Dewey	Truth	False
1445	According to legend he suffered from terrible headaches from a fragment of a whetstone lodged in his head.  Master of Bilskirnir, one of his exploits was the test of the wisdom of the dwarf Alvis until the dawn turned him to stone, thus preventing the marriage to his daughter Thrud.  Thrud's mother, his mistress Jarnsaxa, also gave him the sons Magni and Modi, who often helped him in his adventures.  FTP name this husband of Sif, wielder of Mjollnir, and the Norse God of Thunder.	Thor	Brown_dwarf	False
1446	"Among the most moving pieces in this opera is ""'Liu! Liu! Sorgi!"" sung at the death for a character's unwillingess to betray the man she loves.  Another is the brief aside of Ping longing for his small home covered in bamboo, far away from the executions he must help arrange.  Its most famous aria demands that no rest be taken, which is a result of Calaf's success and his deal with the title character.  FTP name this opera about the wooing of the daughter of the Emperor of China, famous for the aria ""Nessun Dorma,"" the last opera of Giacchimo Puccini."	Turandot	Giacomo_Puccini	False
1447	Among of the winners of this conflict one might number Poland, who briefly obtained a dictatorship in Moscow under Vladislav and a favorable treaty with Russia in the Peace of Polyanov.  Losers might include Denmark, whose king Christian IV lost an eye at the battle of Kolberger Heide and later had to sign the humiliating Peace of Lubeck that stripped it of international power.  Spain was also a loser as it resulted in the indepenence of the United Provinces.  FTP, name this decades long war whose big winners included France, Spain, and Protestants, who were granted major concessions by the Peace of Westphalia?	Thirty Years' War	Peace_of_Westphalia	False
1448	When reacted with an NH group and two R groups, they form enamines; when reacted with NH2OH they form oximes; and when reacted with hydrogen cyanide they form cyanohydrins.  When deoxygenated by zinc they undergo the Clemmensen reduction, and when deoxygenated by a hydrazine they undergo the Wolf-Kishner reduction.  When reacted with Grignards, they are reduced to secondary or tertiary alcohols.  FTP, name this organic functional group that consists of a carbonyl bonded to two R groups and whose simplest member is acetone.	ketone	Wolff–Kishner_reduction	False
1449	The year after it was finished the artist took this painting on a tour of England.  A little bright color is provided by the red cloth worn by the pensive figure modeled on Michelangelo and seated on the left side.  Two pyramidal structures are formed, first by the two figures waving flags on the top right and second by the title object itself.  The artist studied corpses and interviewed survivors before finishing this painting in 1819, a year after an incident off the West African coast inspired this work.  FTP, name this painting depicting the survivors of a French government ship, the masterwork of Theodore Gericault.	"The Raft of the ""Medusa"""	Michelangelo	False
1450	Wilhelm Hallwachs created an experiment to better demonstrate it but could not explain it.  Philip Lenard studied it further but could still not offer an explanation.  It was first demonstrated using two pieces of brass by Heinrich Hertz, who also could not offer an explanation.  It was fully explained mathematically twenty years later when the work function was introduced into the equation.  FTP, name this effect that states that light shined on a surface will cause the emission of electrons.	photoelectric effect	Photoelectric_effect	True
1451	Among his military reforms was the conscription of every young man in his country for a commitment of twenty years.  He employed innovative squadrons with a core of two companies of pikemen and a company of musketeers on each flank.  After defeating his cousin, Zygmunt III, he was free to concentrate on the continent.  This son of Charles IX did so to the dismay of Graf von Tilly at in Pomerania and at Breitenfeld.  FTP, name this man killed at Lutzen, the Swedish monarch during the first half of the Thirty Years' War.	Gustavus Adolphus or Gustav II Adolph	The_Three_Musketeers	False
1452	Completed in the late 1400's, the earlier version is a triptych satirizing greed and features its painter's earliest depiction of Hell.  The titular object of this Hieronymus Bosch painting is drawn by demons and surrounded by a mob, while nuns cradle beggars and make amorous advances towards musicians.  The later version is more subdued, featuring only a handful of peasants on the banks of the River Stour and depicting a cottage nestled on the left.  FTP, name this depiction of the titular vehicle crossing the river, a work by John Constable.	The Hay-Wain	Hieronymus_Bosch	False
1453	Its monarchy started in 1139, after Count Henry's son had himself crowned after the battle of Ourique.  That monarchy ended in 1580 when the country was unified with its eastern neighbor, but in 1640 Cardinal Richelieu sponsored a revolution that put King John IV on the throne and started the Braganza dynasty, later continued by Emperor Pedro in South America.  England's longest-standing continental ally is, FTP, what elongated country that is useful for its proximity to its only land neighbor, Spain.	Portugal	Cardinal_Richelieu	False
1454	"This fanatical admirer of the German Romantic Jean Paul founded a society of friends known as ""David's Band,"" and wrote a series of dances for piano named after him.  Grieg's Piano Concerto is largely derived from an A minor concerto by this German, whose choral works include Requiem for Mignon.  Better known are his Kreisleriana and his Kinderscenen, or Scenes from Childhood.  FTP, name this composer of four symphonies, of which the first is called ""Spring"" and the fourth the ""Rhenish."""	Robert Schumann	Piano_concerto	False
1455	He was the male deity honored during the Chalceia festival.  Rumor lists him as the apprentice of the Naxian Cedalion and as the father of Erechtheus, a king of Athens.  Homer relates that he was married to the Grace Aglaea, but legend links him with another.  He built his palace on Lemnos, after which he gained revenge on his mother by trapping her on a throne of gold.  This had followed his being thrown out of Olympus, but preceded his discovery of Ares with his adulterous wife.  FTP, name this husband of Aphrodite, the lame Greek god of blacksmithing and fire.	Hephaestus	Ares	False
1456	"Mathematically, it can be expressed as P sub g equals x sub g times k sub H.  It is the operative law in explaining how hyperbaric chambers help patients get oxygen, and also explains the mechanism behind Caisson's disease, or ""the Bends.""  It accounts for more carbon dioxide than oxygen being found in blood plasma because carbon dioxide's solubility coefficient is 24 times that of oxygen.  FTP, name this law stating that the weight of a gas that dissolves in a liquid is proportional to the pressure exerted by the gas on the liquid."	Henry's Law	Oxygen	False
1457	"Chapters 57 and 58 discuss both the ""Public Scapegoat"" and the ""Human Scapegoat in Antiquity.""  Shortly thereafter the death of Balder and the veneration of mistletoe form the subject of this work.  The final chapter, ""Farewell to Nemi,"" completes the metaphor of the book as a voyage into the sacred grove in a Turner painting, a metaphor which begins with the discussion of the King of the Wood in chapter 1.  Subtitled ""A Study in Magic and Religion,"" FTP, name this masterpiece of comparative folklore by Sir James George Frazer."	The Golden Bough: A Study in Magic and Religion	The_Golden_Bough	True
1458	In quantum mechanics, these operators obey the commutation relation L sub i with L sub j equals one-half i epsilon i j k times L sub k, and addition of two of them is governed by the Clebsch-Gordan coefficients.  In classical mechanics, if the Lagrangian is invariant under SO(3) [ess-oh-three], this quantity is conserved.  For a particle in a circular orbit, its magnitude is m v r, and for a spinning body, it is given by I times omega.  Generally, its time derivative is the net torque, and it is defined as the cross product of position with linear momentum.  FTP, name this quantity that measures the rotational inertia of a mechanical system.	angular momentum	Torque	False
1459	"He once challenged the French harpsichordist Jean Louis Marchand to a musical contest only to have the Frenchman fail to show up.  His numerous church cantatas include ""Sleepers Awake"" and ""O joyous Light,"" and he used six of those linked cantatas to form his Christmas Oratorio.  He once walked 200 miles on foot to hear the organist Dietrich Buxtehude, shortly after which he composed his Toccata and Fugue in D Minor.  Perhaps better known is his Mass in B Minor.  FTP, name this composer of the St. Matthew Passion and the Goldberg Variations."	Johann Sebastian Bach (prompt on just last name; must have both initials)	Fugue	False
1460	The flexibility of these molecules can be described by the Kuhn length.  Modeling their structure as a random walk results in a Gaussian distribution based on end-to-end distance.  Those in solid state exhibit amorphous and semicrystalline morphology and those that are linear or branched can exhibit thermoplasticity.  Natural examples include cellulose and chitin, and synthetic examples include Lexan, Kevlar, and Plexiglass.  FTP, identify these long chainlike molecules consisting of many repeating subunits.	polymers	The_Structure_of_Scientific_Revolutions	False
1461	The previous Christmas she spent three weeks making ornaments, only to see the cat destroy them all.  At the end of Act II, she is asked to prepare the tarantella that she will dance at the costume party, and by that time we learn that she has three small children, a nurse named Anne-Marie, and a maid named Helene.  She is surprised by Dr. Rank's confession of love, and is dismayed that her forgery is used in a blackmail scheme by Krogstad.  FTP, name this liberated character who walks out on her husband Torvald at the end of Henrik Ibsen's A Doll's House.	Nora Helmer (accept either name)	A_Doll's_House	False
1462	In antiquity, it was popularly thought to be two separate bodies, Eosphorus and Hesperus.  A large highland area, Ishtar Terra, consists mainly of a high plateau, Lakshmi Planum, which is surrounded by enormous mountains.  Data from Magellan's imaging radar showed that much of its surface is covered by lava flows.  It lacks a   magnetic field, probably because of its slow rotation.  FTP, name this planet  whose features like Maxwell Montes are obscured by clouds of sulfuric acid.	Venus	Sulfuric_acid	False
1463	"A childhood fascination with the novel Huck Finn sparked a desire in this individual to become a forest ranger, but only French classes were offered near his isolated village.  He mastered French and studied with a translator of Rabelais, wrote a thesis on Sartre, and won acclaim with his story ""The Catch.""  More recent efforts include A Quiet Life and the science fiction effort The Treatment Tower.  His first novel Nip the Buds, Shoot the Kids did not directly deal with his son Hikari, who is a prominent composer despite severe birth defects.  FTP, name this author of A Personal Matter and The Silent Cry, the Japanese winner of the  Nobel in Literature in 1994."	Oe Kenzaburo	Adventures_of_Huckleberry_Finn	False
1464	Like the Wahhabis, members of this group describe themselves as muwahhidun or monotheists.  They are divided into uqqual and juhhal, and Hamza developed the doctrines of this offshoot of the Ismaili sect, which includes the belief that al-Hakim would return on Judgment Day.  FTP, name this closely-knit religious community, famously represented by the Progressive Socialist party under the leadership of Walid Jumblat, most of whom live in Syria and Lebanon.	Druzes	Lebanon	False
1465	Photolysis or pyrolysis in which a bond is broken without forming ions can produce these by-products of normal metabolism, which play a valuable role in fighting infection.  Dr. Denham Harman, a professor emeritus at the University of Nebraska, is considered the father of a theory of aging in which they are key.  Their namesake reactions involve covalent single bond changes in which one electron comes from each reactant.  FTP, name these molecules with at least one unpaired valence electron, and thus an electrical charge, which can damage cell membranes and cause DNA mutations.	free radicals	Electron	False
1466	"Beaman suggests that it be combated by teaching psychology.  Other factors that may decrease its likelihood include smaller numbers, recognition of each other, and a perceived sense of emergency.  Latane and Darley found that it results from people asking ""Is my help needed?"" rather than ""Should I help or not?""  Stemming from social loafing and a diffusion of responsibility and resulting in the death of Kitty Genovese, FTP, name this effect in which individuals in groups are less likely to help someone in need."	bystander effect	Bystander_effect	True
1467	His drama The Governors was a complete failure unlike earlier successes Lucrece Borgia and Ruy Blas.  His volumes of poetry include Inner Voices, Sunbeams and Shadows, and Songs of Twilight.  Recent English translations include his novel Toilers of the Sea, but he is better known for works like Hans of Iceland and Marion de Lorme.  Even better known are the drama Hernani and a historical novel set in 15th-century Paris.  FTP, name this author of Les miserables and The Hunchback of Notre Dame.	Victor Marie Hugo	The_Hunchback_of_Notre-Dame	False
1468	The E?tv?s-Ramsey law expresses this property as proportional to the temperature of the liquid, while the Gibbs-Thompson law links pressure to mean curvature for a liquid subject to it.  LaPlace's law governs the minimization of this property and is seen directly in the use of agents known as surfactants.  Usually symbolized by the Greek letter gamma, this property explains the ability of a liquid to engage in capillary action.  FTP, identify this property that is the tendency for a liquid to behave like a stretched elastic membrane.	surface tension	Liquid_crystal	False
1469	"The investigation into this event was spearheaded by Montana Democrat Thomas J. Walsh.  Attorney General Harry M. Daugherty resigned as a result of the subsequent press coverage.  Businessmen Edward L. Doheny and Harry F. Sinclair were the perpetrators of the ""loans"" doled out to Secretary of the Navy Edwin Denby and the infamous Secretary of the Interior Albert Fall.  FTP, identify this scandal that involved petroleum reserves under the administration of Warren Harding."	Teapot Dome scandal	Teapot_Dome_scandal	True
1470	"He wears cufflinks made from human molars and supposedly once killed a man who discovered he was von Hindenburg's nephew and second cousin to the devil.  Based on the real-life Arnold Rothstein, this literary character constantly offers ""gonnegtions"" to the narrator of the novel in which he appears, and with the quote ""we need to show our friendship for a man when he is alive and not after he is dead,"" he flatly refuses to attend the funeral of the novel's title character.  Supposedly the man who fixed the 1919 World Series, FTP, identify this Jewish gambler that appears in The Great Gatsby."	Meyer Wolfsheim (accept either name)	The_Great_Gatsby	False
1471	The last king of this dynasty was Brithadratha, who was overthrown by the military commander Pushyamitra Sunga.  In constant opposition to the Chola dynasty in the south, this family's rulers included Dasaratha and Devadharma, and its most famous member's son Mahinda supposedly brought Buddhism to Sri Lanka.  Its founder's most famous advisor was the statesman Kautilya and at its extent it saw the unification of all of northern India.  FTP, identify this Indian dynasty founded by Chandragupta whose most famous member was Ashoka.	Maurya	Maurya_Empire	True
1472	"Time magazine titled this woman ""Mother of the World"" in 1969 even though the governor of Florida called her a ""dirty old lady"" for her views on legalizing marijuana.  Despite the fact doctors told her she was barren, she gave birth in 1939, which she chronicled in Blackberry Winter.  Among her scholarly works are New Life for Old, Continuities in Cultural Evolution, and Balinese Character: A Photo Analysis.  She gained fame for her studies Growing Up in New Guinea and Male and Female.  FTP, identify this anthropologist and author of Coming of Age in Samoa."	Margaret Mead	New_Guinea	False
1473	"Rumors abounded after the publication of this work, stating that its author had dyed his hair green and was overheard in a caf?saying, ""Have you ever eaten a baby?  I find it most pleasing to the palate!""  An important symbol drawn in this poetry collection is the image of the ""ridiculous hanged man"" who is torn to shreds by birds in A Voyage to Cytherea.  Dedicated to Gautier, this collection divides all the good and bad in the world into the Ideal and the Spleen.  FTP, identify this work written by Charles Baudelaire."	Les Fleurs du Mal or The Flowers of Evil	Charles_Baudelaire	False
1474	"He prompted the creation of the world when he put his foot in the water in order to lure the great caiman Tlatechutli, who bit off his foot and took her jaw.  Associated with the flint knife, or tecpatl, he also created the first dogs by cutting off the heads of Tata and Nene and attaching them to the buttocks.  The ruler of Mictlan, this dark god's name means ""smoking mirror"" in reference to the feature in his chest.  FTP, identify this Aztec god of evil and enemy of Quetzalcoatl."	Tezcatlipoca	Quetzalcoatl	False
1475	This compound consists of A and B chains linked together by three disulfide bonds, which are conserved through most species, particularly the C-terminal residues of the B chain.  Existing naturally as a monomer or dimer, lispro is a commercial hexamer of this enzyme that facilitates slow diffusion in the blood.  It works by binding to specific tyrosine kinase receptors in target cells, causing glucose transporters to fuse with plasma membranes.  Secreted by the islets of Langerhans, FTP, identify this enzyme important in regulating the body's sugar levels.	insulin	Enzyme	False
1476	He wrote treatises such as Essays from the Parerga and Paralipomena and The Basis of Morality.  He was one of the main exponents of Kant's thing-in-itself, translating it as a blind, impelling will to live.  His philosophical works were based extensively on his belief in Hindu philosophy and the Upanishads.  FTP, name this philosopher who wrote On the Will in Nature and The World as Will and Representation.	Arthur Schopenhauer	Upanishads	False
1477	"One fateful morning, the protagonist awakes feeling ""completely spattered with bird shit,"" and grabs Divina Flor, the daughter of his kitchen servant, by the pussy.  His troubles had begun a day earlier when the wealthy Bayardo San Roman returns his apparently impure bride to her mother Pura, who deals her a savage beating.  Angela Vicario then fingers the protagonist as the man who deflowered her, whereupon her twin brothers Pablo and Pedro stab him to death.  The death of Santiago Nasar, FTP, is foreshadowed by the narrator of what novel by Gabriel Garcia Marquez?"	Cr?ica de una muerte anunciada or Chronicle of a Death Foretold	Chronicle_of_a_Death_Foretold	True
1478	"This man used his most famous theory to explain the Holocaust during WWII and the My Lai massacre during the Vietnam conflict.  He purported this theory in such works as the article ""Nationality and Conformity"" and Perils of Obedience.  He conducted his studies of conformity with Solomon Asch before conducting his most famous experiment, whose details he analyzed in 1974's Obedience to Authority.  FTP, identify this Yale psychologist whose namesake experiment involved electrically shocking the crap out of some people."	Stanley Milgram	Milgram_experiment	False
1479	"Attacked by Oe for his anti-intellectualism, he was also called ""batakusai"" or ""stinking of butter"" in reference to his Americanism.  His most recent novel, a retelling of the Oedipus myth, is meant as a successor to his three-volume masterpiece, which chronicled Toru Okada's search for his wife and cat.  The stories ""superfrog saves tokyo"" and ""ufo in kushiro"" are included in his most recently translated work, after the quake.  The author of Kafka on the Shore, FTP, identify this author of A Wind-up Bird Chronicle."	Haruki Murakami	Franz_Kafka	False
1480	While a member of the Royal Navy he took part in the sinking of the battleship Bismarck.  He created such radio dramas as Miss Pulkinhorn and Break My Heart, but he is more famous for his novels.  He left the novel The Double Tongue unfinished at his death, and previously wrote a trilogy about the Napoleonic wars consisting of Rites of Passage, Close Quarters, and Fire Down Below.  More famous are the works The Inheritors and Pincher Martin, though he gained real acclaim for his The Spire.  FTP, identify this recipient of the literature Nobel in 1983 and author of Lord of the Flies.	William Golding	Otto_von_Bismarck	False
1481	He wrote music reviews under the pseudonym of Corno di Bassetto.  His first novel was entitled Immaturity and his last, unfinished work was Why She Would Not.  His political writings were collected in Common Sense About the War and he assisted Beatrice and Sydney Webb in founding the Fabian Society.  Best known for such literary works as Widower's Houses, Candida, Saint Joan, and Androcles and the Lion, FTP, name this dramatist of Arms and the Man, Mrs. Warren's Profession and Man and Superman.	George Bernard Shaw	Joan_of_Arc	False
1482	The three most important factors influencing this test are the masses of the atoms involved in the bond, the strength of the bond, and the type of vibration being observed.    Although the absorptions in the wavenumber range from 1000-1600 inverse centimeters are not analyzed in detail, they provide information that helps in identifying the molecule and is thus called the fingerprint region.  FTP, identify this type of spectroscopy which uses light longer in wavelength than that of visible light.	IR or infrared spectroscopy	Infrared_spectroscopy	True
1483	Among his non-fiction works are An Area of Darkness and Among the Believers: An Islamic Journey.  A Way in the World is an essay-like novel that examines how history forms individuals' characters, and Guerrillas is a bleak look at an abortive uprising on a Caribbean island.  His stories in In a Free State won him the Booker Prize, and A House for Mr. Biswas was set in his native Trinidad.  FTP, name the Caribbean-born Indian author who won the 2001 Nobel Prize for literature.	Vidiadhar Surajprasad Naipaul	A_House_for_Mr_Biswas	False
1484	The energy gap between highest occupied molecular orbital and lowest unoccupied molecular orbital is important in controlling reaction rate in this type of reaction.  The reaction has a stereochemical feature resulting in two possible orientations, with the endo adduct preferentially formed when the reaction is under kinetic control.  An example of this reaction is the combination of acrylonitrile and 1,3-butadiene.  Utilizing the compound cyclopentadiene to make cyclohexanes, it earned its discoverers the 1950 Nobel Prize in chemistry.  FTP, name this reaction named for two Germans.	Diels-Alder reaction	Grignard_reaction	False
1485	He failed to win the Prix de Rome five times.  His piano cycles include Miroirs and Gaspard de la Nuit, and he was fascinated by the east as evidenced by Tzigone, a work inspired by gypsy music.  He composed adaptations of three of Tristan Klingsor's Sherezade poems and wrote two full length operas, The Spanish Hour and The Child and His Spells.  FTP, name this French composer who modified Mussorgsky's Pictures at an Exhibition, most famous for his repetitive Bolero.	Maurice Ravel	Bolero	False
1486	The largest and smallest of its eigenvalues correspond to stable motion, but the middle one to unstable motion, according to the tennis racket theorem.  Diagonalization of this quantity gives the principle axes of the system, and when it operates on an angular velocity vector the result is the net torque.  It has a beta of two-thirds for a spherical shell and two-fifths for a solid sphere about their centers, and one-half for a solid disk.  FTP, what is this tensor, whose eigenvalues are analogous to mass for rotational motion, usually symbolized with a capital I?	moment of inertia or inertial moment tensor	Torque	False
1487	"The existence of the ""pre-exponential factor"" in this equation results from the fact that the collision rate is only weakly dependant on temperature, allowing one to treat as a constant its product with the steric factor.  In one form, the natural log of the ""pre-exponential factor"" A provides an intercept of the graph formed by plotting the natural log of k against 1 over T, producing a straight line with gradient given by the negative of the activation energy divided by the gas constant.  FTP, what is this equation concerning the rate constant, developed by the winner of the Nobel Prize for Chemistry in 1903?"	Arrhenius equation	Arrhenius_equation	True
1488	He composed Seven Sonnets of Michelangelo and Les Illuminations specifically for the tenor Peter Pears, who gained fame as the lead in his opera Death in Venice.  A student of Frank Bridge, he composed music intended for church performance like Noye's Floode and Curlew River, but is better known for operas like Billy Budd and The Turn of the Screw.  FTP, who is this British composer of the War Requiem and Peter Grimes?	Benjamin Britten	Billy_Budd	False
1489	He was converted to socialism by George Bernard Shaw, though his primary influence came under the tutelage of Salama Musa.  He wrote several fictional indictments of his native country's revolution, including The Thief and the Dogs, The Beggar, and Karnak.  Other works dealing with his country's politics include The Day the Leader was Killed and The Harafish, though he is better known for social works like Children of Gebelawi and Midaq Alley.  The author of such works as Palace Walk and Palace of Desire, FTP, identify this Egyptian author and recipient of the 1988 Nobel Prize in Literature.	Naguib Mahfouz	Mansa_Musa	False
1490	Noted for its expansionistic aims, by 750 it controlled Kabul and Kashmir, but its expansion was halted with defeat the next year at the Talas River.  Founded amidst civil unrest in 618, T'ai Tsung served as a general in the rebellion and after deposing his father became the dynasty's second ruler.  On the death of T'ai, a former court concubine took power and consolidated the dynasty's power which reached its peak just prior to the unsuccessful An Lu Shan uprising.  Renowned at its height for cultural achievements, FTP, name this ruling dynasty of China which preceded the Sui and followed the Sung.	T'ang Dynasty	Song_dynasty	False
1491	The Gibbs paradox deals with a faulty derivation of this quantity which erroneously suggests it is not an extensive variable. For a monatomic ideal gas, its value is given by the Sackur-Tetrode equation, while for a black hole it is proportional to the surface area of the event horizon. In general it is equal to Boltzmann's constant times the natural logarithm of the number of accessible states. According to the Second Law of Thermodynamics, it always increases in irreversible processes. Proposed by Rudolf Clausius and symbolized S, FTP, what is this measure of the disorder in a system?	entropy	Ludwig_Boltzmann	False
1492	"This author of the plays ""The Confidential Clerk"" and ""The Elder Statesman"" wrote fan letters to Groucho Marx and kept a picture of him on his mantle beside Yeats and Paul Valery.  His second volume of poetry, ""Ara vos prec"", carries his early cynicism to extremes, as seen in works like ""Gerontion"" and the Sweeney poems, while his conversion to Anglicanism in the late 1920s is reflected in his late poems, including ""Journey of the Magi"", ""Ash Wednesday"", and ""Four Quartets"". FTP, name this poet probably best known for his long poem ""The Waste Land""."	Thomas Stearns Eliot	W._B._Yeats	False
1493	"It is the only planet with four satellites within its Roche limit, and it radiates 2.6 times more heat than it receives from the sun, producing a turbulent atmosphere home to a continually shifting series of streaks dubbed ""the Scooter"".  Also known for two large dark ovals known as the ""Small Dark Spot"" and ""Great Dark Spot"", Voyager 2 discovered a number of new satellites, including Thalassa, Despina, Larissa, and Proteus. FTP, what is this planet orbited by Nereid and Triton, usually the eighth planet from the sun?"	Neptune	Triton_(moon)	False
1494	At one point the protagonist is taken in by the Reverend St. John Rivers, who she soon learns is her cousin. As a child she spent ten years with her hateful aunt-in-law Mrs. Reed of Gateshead Hall, but experienced happiness at Lowood School, where she soon became a teacher. Taking a job as governess of Adela Varens, she moved to Thornfield Manor, where she eventually agreed to marry her employer, Edward Rochester, only to discover on their wedding day the secret of his marriage to Bertha Mason, who he had kept hidden on the third floor. FTP, what is this novel, the best known work by Charlotte Bronte?	Jane Eyre	Jane_Eyre	True
1495	He had affairs with wives of his generals Gates and Biddle and may have caught a fatal chill leaving the house of a mistress.  He refused to visit France because he couldn't master the language and inherited a plantation named after his brother Lawrence's commander against the Spanish in the West Indies, Admiral Vernon.  FTP, name this man, the first president of the U.S.	George Washington	D._H._Lawrence	False
1496	"He developed an interest in the supernatural soon before he died, producing such works as The Political History of the Devil and An Essay on the History and Reality of Apparitions--years after he wrote such early English ghost stories as ""The Ghost of Dorothy Dingley.""  He wrote the mock ode ""A Hymn to the Pillory"" in prison in 1703, soon after writing the satiric poem ""The Shortest Way with the Dissenters,"" but is better known for the Jounral of the Plague Year and the novel Moll Flanders.  For 10 points- name this Englishman who retold the story of Alexander Selkirk in his novel Robinson Crusoe."	Daniel Defoe (or Daniel Foe)	Robinson_Crusoe	False
1497	"Critics mocked him as ""Comrade Lavatory Lover,"" because he insisted on equipping the Moscow Metro with the most up-to-date toilets while serving as regional party chief in the 1930s. During much of the 1940s he headed the Ukrainian Communist Party, where he organized the post-WWII reconstruction of the region. In his famous Secret Speech of 1956 he established the tenor of his time in power, secured after his defeat of his rivals Bulganin, Malenkov, and Molotov. Known for his role in the Cuban Missile Crisis, FTP, who was this successor of Stalin as head of the Soviet Union?"	Nikita (Sergeevich) Khrushchev	Joseph_Stalin	False
1498	He made a treaty with John XII extending the temporal power of the papacy, with a clause giving him the ability to ratify their election, and shortly thereafter deposed the pope and replaced him with Leo VIII. The brother of St. Bruno, he had to return home to quash his son Liudolf's rebellion soon after assuming the title King of the Lombards, and later fought back a Magyar invasion at the Battle of Lechfeld. The son of Henry the Fowler, FTP, who was this man who in 962 was crowned the first Holy Roman Emperor?	Otto I	Otto_I,_Holy_Roman_Emperor	True
1499	"His name is given to both the ""A coefficient of spontaneous emission"" and the ""B coefficient"" used in the quantum theory of radiation, while in astronomy his name is used with that of de Sitter's to designate a type of universe in which the mean density of matter is precisely matched to the critical density. One of his equations holds that the maximum kinetic energy of electrons emitted in the photoemissive effect is hf minus W, while in chemistry his name is given to the element with atomic number 99. With Bose the namesake of the fifth state of matter, FTP, who is this scientist probably best known for his equation E equals mc squared?"	Albert Einstein	Photoelectric_effect	False
1500	In one plot development, Mauricio Babilonia is paralyzed after being shot due to his tryst with Meme, whose outgoing nature leads her to invite 72 of her friends home from boarding school. The fortune-teller Pilar Ternera and the gypsy Melquiades provide guidance to the members of the central family, which is held together for many year by Ursula Iguaran in spite of the turmoil caused by the rebellion of Colonel Aureliano Buendia. Set in the town of Macondo, FTP, what is this masterpiece of magical realism by Gabriel Garcia Marquez?	One Hundred Years of Solitude	One_Hundred_Years_of_Solitude	True
1501	Troops led by Karl von Bulow reached the site at about 6 PM, pressuring the eastern French flank.  Battalions from the Imperial Guard were moved from the main battle to prevent a rear attack, while La Haye Sainte was taken by Michel Ney.  The Imperial Guard arrived at about 7 pm, but so did von Zieten's corps, which reinforced the Duke of Wellington's troops.  After Ney's forces were repulsed, the Allies advanced, forcing a French retreat at, FTP, what June 18, 1815 battle, Napoleon's final defeat?	Battle of Waterloo	Battle_of_Waterloo	True
1502	The city of San Juan del Sur sits on the southwest coast of this nation, but San Juan del Norte, which lies on its east coast, is further south.  Bluefields, on its Caribbean coast, is a center for drug trafficking. Le?, which was its capital until 1855, is its second-largest city, while the city of Granada lies on its namesake lake, the largest in Central America.  FTP, name this nation with capital at Managua.	Nicaragua	San_Francisco	False
1503	In 2002, this compound was the first to be used successfully to prevent muscle loss in certain lung cancer patients.  It can be used to treat asthma and diabetes, and in the body it acts as a neurotransmitter, but its most important function was discovered by Fritz Lipmann and Herman Kalkar in 1941.  In cells, it readily loses a phosphate ion by hyrdolysis, providing the means for organelles to carry out biological processes.  The predominant source of energy in living cells, FTP what is this compound named in part for the D-ribose component's possession of three phosphate groups.	ATP or adenosine triphosphate	Red_blood_cell	False
1504	This dynasty included the Yung Lo reign of Ch'eng Tsu.  Because Ch'eng Tsu feared that his nephew might return to claim the throne, he ordered naval expeditions which reached as far west as Aden and Hormuz.  He also moved the capital to Peking from Nanking, where it had been established in 1368 by Chu Y?an-Chang, who ruled as Hung-wu.  Sandwiched between the rule of the Yuan and the Manchus, FTP, name this Chinese dynasty, known for its porcelain vases.	Ming Dynasty	Ming_dynasty	True
1505	"In this religion, the outside world is referred to as ""Babylon"" and its major scripture is the ""Holy Piby.""  Meditation is helped by the use of ganja and the deity is known as Jah.  Its practitioners often wear woolen caps of red and gold, although many of them quit the religion in 1974 after its leader's death.  FTP, name this religion associated with pot and reggae and the veneration of Haile Selassie."	Rastifarianism	Haile_Selassie	False
1506	"In a house on Usher's Island, the protagonist of this story worries that his quoting from Robert Browning in his after-dinner speech will be over the listeners' heads.  However, his metaphor of the Three Graces is well received by Aunts Julia and Kate, as well as Mary Jane.  The climax is reached when the singing of ""The Lass of Aughrim"" causes Gretta to remember her old lover, Michael Furey, and the sight of snowflakes outside the window brings an epiphany to Gabriel Conroy.  FTP, name this last story in Dubliners, written by James Joyce."	The Dead	Robert_Browning	False
1507	Early in his legal career, he studied rhetoric with Arellius Fuscus and Porcius Latro, and then became either the administrator of a prison or a mint before being promoted to judge.  Spurious works attributed to him include On Fishing and The Walnut Tree, while he defended his life's work in Ibis.  He wrote a long poem on women's cosmetics, Medicamina Faciei Femineae, and attempted to cure love in Remedia Amoris.  He composed letters between mythological heroes and their spouses in the Heroides, and in Letters from the Black Sea lamented the exile caused in part by his controversial Ars Amatoria. FTP, name this Latin poet probably best known for his Metamorphoses?	Publius Ovidius Nasso	Ovid	True
1508	This artist of House by the Railroad and Sunlight in a Cafeteria originally trained as an illustrator, and was influenced by his time studying under Robert Henri. He frequently painted urban scenes, as in 1927's Drug Store and 1930's Early Sunday Morning, and is known for his masterly use of lighting effects, as in Chop Suey.  For ten points, identify this painter of Nighthawks.	Edward Hopper	Nighthawks	False
1509	"Less than a dozen of the ""bursting"" type have been discovered. The most extreme ones are known as ""millisecond"" ones, while the binary ones were first discovered by Russell Hulse and Joseph Taylor, for whith they won the 1993 Nobel Prize in Physics. Their study began when Antony Hewish built a primitiver radio telescope to study scintillation effects, and soon discovered an unexpected source which was soon interpreted by Jocelyn Bell. FTP, what are these neutron stars which emit brief amounts of energy."	pulsars (prompt on neutron stars)	Neutron_star	True
1510	This battle occurred 15 days after the invading army landed at Milford Haven, and saw the death of John Howard in the initial skirmishing. Fought 12 miles east of Leicester, the king's army originally secured a superior position atop Ambien Hill. However, John Stanley and Henry Percy, the Earl of Northumberland, failed to assist the Yorkists in battle. Sir William Stanley led the charge into the Yorkist flank, resulting in victory for Henry Tudor.  FTP name this 1485 battle, the last of the Wars of the Roses, which saw the death of Richard III.	Battle of Bosworth Field	Battle_of_Bosworth_Field	True
1511	"This man did his doctoral work performing studies of attachment behavior in rhesus monkeys with Harry Harlow at the University of Wisconsin, where he married his first cousin Bertha. After receiving his Ph. D. in 1934, he went to Columbia, where he worked with Thorndike on human sexuality.  A leading proponent of ""third-force psychology"", he penned the classic books Motivation and Personality and Toward a Psychology of Being. As department chair at Brandeis, he met Kurt Goldstein, who introduced him to the concept of self-actualization.  FTP, name this humanistic psychologist, famous for developing his hierarchy of needs."	Abraham Maslow	Maslow's_hierarchy_of_needs	False
1512	Like several other organs, this organ is restrained by the peritoneum. Attached to the peritoneum below the capsule are the two ligaments that hold its protective serous and fibroelastic coats in place and allow this organ to expand and contract after digestion. Below the hilum, one of its coats reflects inward into branching sheets that radiate the trabeculae that separate its pulp-containing areolae, where the reticulum connects this organ to the lienal artery and allows it to fulfill its primary function. Made up of red and white pulp, in times of bone marrow breakdown it produces red blood cells. FTP, name this primary filtering organ for the blood.	spleen	Red_blood_cell	False
1513	"A meeting with actor William Macready convinced this writer to try his hand at stage writing, but his two published plays Strafford and A Blot in the Scutcheon were not as successful as early poems like ""Count Gismond-Aix in Provence."" A low point in his career was his Italian period, when poems like ""Soliloquy in a Spanish Cloister"" and ""Porphyria's Lover"" sold badly, but his poetry is optimistic even after the 1861 death of his wife, when he included poems like ""Rabbi Ben Ezra"" and ""Caliban upon Setebos"" in his collection Dramatis Personae. FTP, name this poet known for dramatic monologues like ""Fra Lippo Lippi"" and ""My Last Duchess."""	Robert Browning	My_Last_Duchess	False
1514	Assuming the name Gagnrad, he traveled to the hall of his rival Vafthrudnir, and defeated him in a duel of wits by asking about the words he whispered into his dying son's ear. He attempted to hang himself upon learning of his doom in Ragnarok. His search for knowledge began with a trip to the Well of Wyrd, where its owner Mimir demanded an eye in exchange for a sip. FTP, name this Norse god of wisdom, the leader of the Aesir.	Odin	Knowledge	False
1515	He first attained a perception of spatial depth through his invention of the schiacciato technique, which he used for the bald Zuccone, part of a series of prophets carved for the Campanile of his city. At about the same time, he worked on a famous scene for the Siena baptistery known as the Salome scene. His 1416 St. George and the Dragon shows his transition from gothic to humanistic perspectivism, while his later residency at Padua after 1443 saw the completion of the San Antonio Altarpiece and the equestrian statue, the Gattamelatta. FTP, name this early Renaissance Florentine sculptor who created the first large bronze freestanding nude since classical times, known as The Boy David.	Donatello (accept: Donati di Niccolo di Betto Bardi)	Salome	False
1516	"An extramarital affair partially prompted his critique of the conflict between eroticism and religion in the essay ""Religious Rejections of the World and Their Directions"". The emotional domination exerted on him by his father led both to his 1898 mental breakdown and his advocacy of ""Liberal Imperialism"" to solve Germany's agrarian problems in his famous Freiburg Address. He gained fame for his analysis of German political and economic life in Economy and Society, but is more famous today for his investigation of the roots of the ""spirit of capitalism"". FTP, who was this German thinker, author of The Protestant Ethic?"	Max Weber	Germany	False
1517	A famous anecdote about this man relates how he went to register for the census and described his military service by stating he had served in sixteen victorious campaigns, all under his own command. Among these campaigns were his defeat of Sertorius in Spain, his suppression of the Cilician pirates in six months at sea, and his final conquest of Mithridates in the East, and it was for these successes, as much as his youthful resemblance to Alexander of Macedon, that Sulla gave him his famous cognomen. For 10 points name this Roman, the best general of the late Republic, who finally met his match against his former father-in-law and fellow triumvir Julius Caesar at Pharsalus.	Pompey the Great (Gnaeus Pompeius Magnus)	Sulla	False
1518	The entrance of his brother into a Carthusian monastery is said to have inspired this man's Secretum Meum, while other interesting works include his Italia Mia, inspired by his friendship with the Republican revivalist Cola di Rienzo, and Africa, an epic poem on the Second Punic War.  Other famous works include De viris illustribus, a series of biographies of the most famous men of all time, and Metrical Letters, but he is perhaps best known for works in the Italian vernacular he helped to popularize, such as Trionfi and the poems inspired by a woman he first saw in the Church of St. Clare at Avignon on April 6, 1327. FTP, name this man, who employed his namesake sonnet form in ths Canonziere or Rime addressed to the mysterious Laura.	Petrarch (Francesco Petrarca)	Sonnet	False
1519	"His efforts in opera were almost completely unsuccessful, chiefly due to the asinine libretti seen in efforts like Alfonso and Estrella, The Twin Brothers, and Fierribras. The inventor of the ""Moments Musicaux"", his chamber works include the Grand Duo Piano Sonata in C Major, a series of Impromptus, and Fantasy in F Major, but he is better known for works in another genre that include ""Gretchen at the Spinning Wheel"", ""Hark, Hark, The Lark"", and ""The Doppelganger"". FTP, name the prolific composer of lieder probably best known for his 8th symphony, which was left unfinished."	Franz Schubert	Piano_sonata	False
1520	"Like Montaigne, this thinker wrote a collection of brief articles known as ""The Essays"", although his are also known as ""The Counsels, Civil and Moral"". Described by Pope in ""An Essay on Man"" as ""the brightest, wisest, (and) meanest of mankind"" both for his intellectual gifts and for the disgrace suffered when he accepted a bribe from a litigant as a civil servant, he held that knowledge should be amassed and studied in a systematic fashion, prompting his attempt to create the ambitions ""Instauratio Magna"", parts of which described his method of induction and his ""idols of the mind"". FTP, who was this British philosopher, author of ""Novum Organum"", ""The Advancement of Learning"", and ""The New Atlantis""?"	Francis Bacon	Alexander_Pope	False
1521	"Sometimes produced by the Sicilian process, this element takes on a reddish-brown solid form known as its ""plastic"" form when cooled from a molten state. Combining with nearly all other elements at valencies of 2, 4, and 6, its natural form consists of 8 atoms held in a so-called ""puckered"" ring. It is attached to two hydrogen atoms in its most famous compound, known for its smell of rotten eggs. FTP, what is this yellow nonmetallic element with atomic number 16 and symbol S?"	sulfur	Hydrogen	False
1522	His Adoration of the Magi features portraits of the Medicis holding the foot of Christ, while the monk looking at the viewer may be his own self-portrait. Born with the surname Filipepi, this man's more famous name may have come from the name of the goldsmith to whom he was apprenticed before studying under Fra Lippo Lippi. Painter of Man with Medal and Judith, his thriftiness and association with the religious movement of Savonarola led to poverty in his later years, despite a successful career in which he was known for illustrations of  The Divine Comedy and the painting Primavera. FTP, name this artist best known for the Birth of  Venus.	Sandro Botticelli (accept Filipepi until mentioned)	Girolamo_Savonarola	False
1523	Facing La Disputa in the Stanza della Segnatura, the elements of this painting are reminiscent of Leonardo's The Last Supper, and Bramante's St. Peter's Basilica, and the works of Michelangelo, who appears at bottom center.  The background contains statues of Apollo and Athena overlooking a mass of people gathered around four steps. The table in the front center is being written upon by Pythagoras, while to the side Euclid is seen drawing triangles. The center is dominated by Aristotle, Plato, and Socrates.  Located in the Vatican Palace, FTP, name this 1511 fresco by Raphael.	The School of Athens	The_School_of_Athens	True
1524	"This writer called sex ""the punishment for being together,"" yet he frequently slept with prostitutes.  An employee at the Workers' Accident Insurance Corporation in Prague, he reluctantly published some of his shorter works, including Meditation, The Judgment, and In the Penal Colony. He ordered his friend Max Brod to destroy his manuscripts on his death, but Brod instead published them. FTP, who is this author of Amerika, The Trial, and The Metamorphosis?"	Franz Kafka	Franz_Kafka	True
1525	"Soon into his musical career, he turned to Zen Buddhism and the I Ching for guidance, which led to his advocacy of indeterminism.  Associated with the choreographer Merce Cunningham, he wrote the books M, Notations, A Year from Monday and Silence.  His major musical compilations include Roratorio, Bacchanale for prepared piano, and Imaginary Landscape No. 4 for 12 radios.  A student of Arnold Schoenberg, FTP, name this avant-garde composer who is most famous for 4'33""."	John Milton Cage	Arnold_Schoenberg	False
1526	A series of accurate measurements of the rate of this process for different combinations of substances was made in 1870 by Loschmidt using his namesake tube. It occurs roughly 100,000 times faster in gases than liquids, as indicated by Fick's Law, while the best-known law concerning it holds that the rate at which it occurs for gases is inversely proportional to the square roots of their densities, a relationship known as Graham's law. FTP, what is this chemical process in which different substances mix as a result of the random motions of their components?	diffusion	Boyle's_law	False
1527	"A key moment of this novel concerns the revelation by a drunk known as ""Owl Eyes"" that the titular character's books are uncut, thus giving a hint of his shallow character. While dating the golfer Jordan Baker, the narrator begins to learn about the protagonist, who rose to prominence under the tutelage of the yachtsman Dan Cody. The climax occurs with the murder of the protagonist by George Wilson, who was avenging the death of his wife in a car accident caused by Daisy Buchanan. Narrated by Nick Carraway, FTP, what is this Jazz Age novel, perhaps the best known work of F. Scott Fitzgerald?"	The Great Gatsby	The_Great_Gatsby	True
1528	"His long campaign to win Livonia eventually met failure at the hands of Stephen Bathory, but he did conquer Kazan and Astrakhan and made the first Russian inroads into Siberia. The son of Vasily III, his reign was characterized by his struggles with the boyars, leading him to call the first national assembly, the zemski sobor, and establish his own state called Oprichnina within Russia. After the death of his first wife Anastasia in 1560 he experienced a decline in emotional stability which is the source of his current fame. FTP, who was this first czar of Russia, known as * ""the Terrible""?"	Ivan IV (accept Ivan the Terrible before *)	Russia	False
1529	Dynamically, it is governed by the Kruskal-Shafranov criterion of stability and the Vlasov, or collisionless Boltzmann, equation, and it frequently exhibits Langmuir waves, which are named for the man who first coined this term. Its behavior is governed in part by the Debye length and by its net Coulomb force, which causes collective modes of motion as well as its high susceptibility to magnetic phenomenon. Found in the Solar Wind, ionosphere, and the interiors of stars, it is thought to compose 99% of the matter of the universe. FTP, what is this fourth state of matter?	plasma	Ionosphere	False
1530	"A premonition of the title character's death is found in her ""Card Song"", while another major moment of the opera is the duet ""Seguidilla"". The male lead's fate is sealed when he draws his sword on Captain Zuniga, leading him to flee to the mountains and join the smuggling gang led by Lillas Pastia. Shortly after singing his ""Flower Song"" he abandons his sweetheart Micaela, but his beloved soon cuckolds him for the bullfighter Escamillo, who sings the famous ""Toreador Song"". FTP, what is this opera about a gypsy woman, the masterpiece of Georges Bizet?"	Carmen	Carmen	True
1531	"A pattern of green leaves often covers the stage to symbolize better times for the protagonist, who is fired by Howard Wagner shortly after he recounts the story of Dave Singleton, a well-liked fellow employee whose funeral was well attended. One of the protagonist's sons fails to secure a loan from his former employer, Bill Oliver, continuing a series of failures which began with his discovery of his father's affair with ""the Woman"" in a Boston hotel room. Linda is alarmed at the series of car accidents suffered by her husband, who kills himself for the insurance money after he believes he has been reconciled with his son Biff. FTP, what is this play about Willy Loman, written by Arthur Miller?"	Death of a Salesman	Death_of_a_Salesman	True
1532	"The time when this composer heard a flute player repeat a four note theme for two and a half hours inspired his orchestral suite ""Beni Mora"", while the works of Keats were the basis for his ""First Choral Symphony"". A symphony trombonist, he developed an austere style in works like ""Egdon Heath"" and the opera ""At the Boar's Head"", and gained acclaim for the ""St Paul's Suite"" and the operas ""The Perfect Fool"" and ""Savitri"", the latter of which stemmed from an interest in Hindu themes that prompted him to learn Sanskrit. FTP, who is this British composer probably best known for a seven-part orchestral suite entitled ""The Planets""?"	Gustav Holst	Symphony_No._8_(Mahler)	False
1533	"Nevill Mott won a share of the 1977 Nobel Prize in Physics for his research on the amorphous type of these materials. The properties exhibited by the intrinsic type are generally poor and temperature-dependent. The more useful kind is the extrinsic type, which are classified as p or n types and which often possess ""holes"" after impurities are added, a process known as ""doping"". Important examples include gallium arsenide and silicon. FTP, what are these materials, which exhibit levels of conductivity between those of conductors and insulators?"	semiconductors	Semiconductor	True
1534	"Read, Fordham, and Adler compiled the collected works of this man, whose first important work was a book on the psychology of dementia praecox. Drawn to psychology after attending the lectures of the pioneer Pierre Janet, he extended the definition of libido to apply to the totality of life' processes, and in 1923's ""Psychological Types"" introduced the concepts of introvert and extrovert. FTP, who was this Swiss psychologist, developer of the concepts of the collective unconscious and archetypes?"	Carl Gustav Jung	Alfred_Adler	False
1535	One story about this god tells of the trouble caused when he impaled the eagle of Thiazi when angered over the amount of his food Thiazi ate, while another tells of his theft of cursed gold from the dwarf Andvari. The son of the giants Farbauti and Laufey, at one point his wife Sigyn is forced catch poison dropped on him while he is chained to three boulders. FTP, who is this Norse trickster god?	Loki	Eagle	False
1536	"Parkinson's disease caused this author to give up work on his ""America"" series after writing only two plays, ""A Touch of the Poet"" and ""More Stately Mansions"". Getting his start with the plays in ""Thirst and Other One Act Plays"", written while in a tuberculosis sanitarium, his middle period is marked by the use of masks and symbolism, seen in plays like ""Marco Millions"", ""Lazarus Laughed"", and ""The Great God Brown"", but he is better known for his early sea plays like ""Beyond the Horizon"" and ""Anna Christie"". FTP, who is this playwright, author of ""The Hairy Ape"" and ""The Iceman Cometh""?"	Eugene O'Neill	Eugene_O'Neill	True
1537	"This composer first won fame with the publication of his opus 3 ""L'estro armonico"", a collection of concertos for one, two or four violins, while in the realm of sacred music he composed the celebrated orotorio ""Juditha triumphans"". Composer of an opera based on ""Orlando furioso"", he offered musical training at the Pio Ospedale della Pieta, a orphanage for girls in Venice, while gaining the moniker ""the red priest"" due to his red hair. FTP, who was this Italian composer now best-known for the concertos in ""The Four Seasons""?"	Antonio Vivaldi	Piano_concerto	False
1538	The so-called Southern school of this religion emphasized sudden enlightenment, but had died out by the 8th century. Introduced to the west largely through the writings of D.T. Suzuki, it was originally introduced by the legendary Bodhidharma. Its varied practices include the continual invocation of Amida in the Obaku school, while the Soto school uses the practice of zazen, or sitting in meditation without expectation, but most famous is the Renzai sect's use of paradoxical koans. FTP, what is this major branch of Buddhism?	Zen Buddhism	Zen	True
1539	In the 1940s barium titanate was discovered to exhibit this effect strongly when exposed to high temperatures. Originally a laboratory curiosity, it was first exploited in WWI when its converse version was used in an early form of sonar. Seen in crystals lacking a center of structural symmetry, such as tourmaline, it has come to be used in phonograph pickups and microphones after its 1880 discovery by Paul-Jacques and Pierre Curie. Seen especially in Rochelle salts and quartz, FTP, what is this effect in which certain non-conducting crystals exhibit a potential difference across opposite faces when exposed to mechanical stress?	piezoelectricity or piezoelectric effect	Quartz	False
1540	In the north of this country is the vast tropical forest known as the Peten, as well as the Lake Izabal-Rio Dulce river system, to the south of which is the largest river, the Motagua. The population is concentrated in a highland region which cuts across the country from east to west, and is home to Lake Atitlan and the inactive volcano Tajumulco, the highest point in Central America. Major cities include Quetzaltenango, San Jose, and Puerto Barrios. Bordered by El Salvador, Hondorus, Belize, and Mexico, FTP, what is this country which chares its name with the capital city?	Republic of Guatemala	El_Salvador	False
1541	Tension arises in this novel when the understanding Mr. Brown is replaced by the uncompromising Reverend James Smith, who encourages the fanaticism of the young Christian convert Enoch, who provokes the climax of the novel by ripping the mask off of an egwugwu during a religious ceremony. The protagonist is forced into exile for seven years after his gun misfires, killing a village boy. After his return to Ufuomia, his fears of appearing weak like his father Unoka prompt him to beat his son Nwoye and to kill a government messenger with his machete, after which he hangs himself. Centering on the character Okonkwo, FTP, what is this novel, the masterpiece of Chinua Achebe?	Things Fall Apart	Things_Fall_Apart	True
1542	"This school of philosophy was carried on by Posidonius and Panaetius during its so-called ""middle"" period, whose beginning is often identified with the death of the thinker Antipater. Defining the active principle of the universe as a God who can only act upon matter through something they called the ""intelligent pneuma"", major expositors like Cleanthes, Chrysippus, and Epictetus argued for freedom from passions and desires. Famously practiced by Marcus Aurelius, FTP, what is this school of philosophy founded by Zeno of Citium?"	Stoicism	Stoicism	True
1543	Fascinated in his youth by the sea and ships, he spent two years of his reign traveling throughout Europe learning the techniques of shipbuilding, but upon his return was forced to put down a revolt of the streltsy. Originally joint emperor with his retarded brother Ivan under the regency of his half-sister Sophia, he soon seized power, and later had his son Alexei tortured to death to maintain his rule. His seizure and eventual loss of Azov was his first notable attempt to gain greater maritime access, which was completed with his gain of a section of the Baltic coast, where he founded his new capital, modeled on the Western ideas he forced upon his country. FTP, who was this victor in the Great Northern War who from 1682-1725 ruled Russia?	Peter the Great or Peter I	Peter_the_Great	True
1544	"With Margaret Vaughan he wrote the book ""Enjoy Old Age"", while autobiographical information can be found in works like ""Particulars of My Life"" and ""A Matter of Consequences"". He delivered the famous William James Lectures at Harvard in 1947 mainly on the strength of his 1938 work ""The Behavior of Organisms"", which presented his theories on operant conditioning, further addressed in his controversial books ""Beyond Freedom and Dignity"" and ""Walden Two"". FTP, who was this behaviorist psychologist famous for his namesake ""box""?"	Burrhus Frederick Skinner	B._F._Skinner	False
1545	To fulfill her need for excitement, the protagonist of this novel frequents the racetrack, where she develops a physical attraction to Alcee Arobin. She develops dissatisfaction with her life in part due to the piano recitals of Mademoiselle Reisz and her long conversations with Madame Ratignolle while vacationing at Grand Isle, where she soon falls in love with Robert Lebrun, but when Lebrun refuses to explore their love due to her marriage, she drowns herself in the sea. FTP, what is this novel about Edna Pontellier, written by Kate Chopin?	The Awakening	The_Awakening_(Chopin_novel)	True
1546	The erroneous idea that the reaction which forms this class of compounds was analogous to neutralization led to their strange naming convention, in which these compounds are named as if they were alkyl salts of carboxylic acids.  IR peaks for these compounds appear at both 1750 and 1200 inverse centimeters, and reaction of them with a base to form an alcohol and a salt is known as saponification and is used in making soap. They are of the form RCOOR' (R C O O R prime) where R and R' are alkyl or aryl groups. FTP name these compounds which form from the reaction of an acid and an alcohol, well known for their unique smells.	esters	Carboxylic_acid	False
1547	Early works like the recently discovered Dormition of the Virgin show the influence of Byzantine icon painting. Kicked out of Titian's workshop in less than 10 days because he was too talented for Titian's comfort, he excelled as a portraitist, as seen in his painting Felix Paravicino. Known for a characteristic style representing figures as elongated, flame-like forms utilizing eerie bluish colors, he created a series of famed altarpieces, including El Espolio and The Burial of Count Orgaz. FTP, who was this artist who painted his adopted home in View of Toledo, known by a name indicating his Cretan origins.	El Greco or Domenikos Theotocopoulos Cretan	Titian	False
1548	At the outset of this novel, Heloise Dubuc dies of shock after a lawyer steals all her property. Another character, Binet, spends his free time making napkin rings on his lathe in his attic.  Financial troubles for the title character begin with a failed operation on Hippolyte, and are further precipitated after borrowing money from Lheureux. Also causing problems are her love affairs with the landowner Boulanger and the student Leon. FTP, identify this novel chronicling the downfall of the wife of the doctor Charles, the best known work of Gustave Flaubert.	Madame Bovary	Gustave_Flaubert	False
1549	"Until the 1930s this woman wrote poetry under the pseudonym Anne Singleton. Heavily influenced by Elsie Clews Parson and Alexander Goldenweiser, she produced her first book, Tales of the Cochiti Indians, in 1931, having earlier gained her Ph.D. with The Concept of the Guardian Spirit in North America. She held that the overall ""personality"" of a society defines its members, explaining her ideas in works like Zuni Mythology and The Chrysanthemum and the Sword. FTP, who was this anthropologist, author of Patterns of Culture?"	Ruth Benedict	The_Chrysanthemum_and_the_Sword	False
1550	Before he began authoring original work, he doctored The Spanish Tragedy for Henslowe, and adapted two Roman comedies in The Case is Altered. He was satirically portrayed in Marston's Histriomastix, though he later collaborated with Marston and Chapman on Eastward Ho! He later wrote masques such as Epicene, and satires like Bartholomew Fair, Cynthia's Revels and the Poetaster. FTP, who was this 17th century dramatist responsible for Volpone, The Alchemist, and Every Man in His Humour?	Ben Jonson	Volpone	False
1551	As a child he was given the four winds to play with by the wind god Anu. Originally a god of thunderstorms, a text which surfaced during the reign of Nebuchadnezzar I bestowed 50 honorable names upon him, and told how with a bow and arrow and some magic given to him by his father, Enki, he slayed the dragon Tiamat and her consort Kingu, and created mankind from Kingu's blood. FTP name this god whose story is told in the Enuma Elish, the chief deity of ancient Babylonia.	Marduk	Marduk	True
1552	His relentless attacks on Christianity can be seen in his essay Of National Characters, which was later added to his two volume Essays, Moral and Political. Criticized for defending Charles I in his 1754 History of England, this philosopher established a system of morality based on utility and human sentiments alone in his Enquiry Concerning the Principles of Morals, but is more famous for a work containing the essay Of Miracles.  FTP, identify this Scottish empiricist philosopher, the author of Treatise of Human Nature and Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding.	David Hume	An_Enquiry_Concerning_Human_Understanding	False
1553	"A drug known as brefeldin A blocks the transfer of proteins to this organelle, while vesicles bound for it tend to be coated with either COP I or COP II.  The current paradigm for its sorting abilities is explained by the ""maturational model"", which states that proteins from the endoplasmic reticulum enter its cis face and are packaged in its cisternae, after which they are transported out of the trans face.  Composed of a stack of flattened sacks, FTP, identify this cellular organelle, an apparatus named after an Italian anatomist."	Golgi complex or apparatus	Endoplasmic_reticulum	False
1554	"The Satsuma Rebellion occurred during this period. Most political power during this period was held by Choshu and Tosa clan leaders, in spite of an authoritarian constitution drafted by Ito Hirobumi. Founded under the slogan ""Enrich the country and strengthen the military,"" this period's philosophy was espoused in the Charter Oath and propagated the return of imperial rule.  Occurring after the overthrow of the Tokugawa shogunate in 1868, FTP, identify this period of modernization in Japanese history known as the ""restoration"" of its namesake emperor."	Meiji Restoration	Tokugawa_shogunate	False
1555	"Getting his start in writing with the poetry collection ""Babbling April"", he went on to write the plays ""The Living Room"" and ""The Complaisant Lover"", but is better known for his novels. He found his voice with his fourth novel, ""Stamboul Train"", the first of the works he dubbed ""entertainments"" due to their similarity to thrillers. His wide travels provided the settings for works like ""The Comedians"", ""A Burnt Out Case"", and ""Our Man in Havana"". FTP, who is this English author best known for ""The End of the Affair"", ""The Heart of the Matter"" and ""The Power and the Glory""?"	(Henry) Graham Greene	Similar	False
1556	When one accounts for the mass distribution, it can be found by using the parallel and perpendicular axis theorems.  It is the common factor in rotational kinetic energy and angular momentum, and when multiplied by the angular acceleration, this quantity yields the net torque in a system.  Important in determining a system's rotational motion, FTP, identify this physics quantity that is considered the rotational analog of mass and is generally designated I.	moment of inertia	Angular_momentum	False
1557	He gained fame as a translator with his Acts of King Arthur and His Noble Knights, while works of nonfiction include 1942's Bombs Away and the Robert Capa collaboration A Russian Journal.  He is better known for his novels, lesser-known examples of which are The Short Reign of Pippen IV, and The Wayward Bus. His first work, Cup of Gold, was followed by works like In Dubious Battle and The Red Pony, many of which were based on his experiences in Salinas, California. FTP, identify this American writer of such works as East of Eden and The Grapes of Wrath.	John Steinbeck	The_Grapes_of_Wrath	False
1558	"Just as he was replacing GE Moore at Cambridge the war broke out and he left his chair to help the effort as a porter and lab assistant. His second book was published posthumously and contains several challenges to his previous assumptions and using the example of games and ""family resemblances"" to explain the overlapping interests of his philosophy. This book, Philosophical Investigations, had been preceded by the 75 page tome investigating the limits of language that made his name in 1922. FTP identify this philosopher best known for his Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus."	Ludwig Wittgenstein	Tractatus_Logico-Philosophicus	False
1559	His images were placed where roads crossed, and it is a natural extension of his guardian role that he also received the epithet Psychopompus, or conductor of souls.  As an ancient deity of the Pelasgians, he was also known as Kriophoros, or ram-bearer, for his role as a protector of flocks and herds.  After the Dorian invasion he lost much of his prestige, his functions being taken over by Apollo Nomius, but he will always be known as the slayer of Argus, FTP, who is this son of Zeus and the messenger of the gods?	Hermes	The_Picture_of_Dorian_Gray	False
1560	On a lower shelf is a book of arithmetic, two Lutheran hymn books, and a lute with a broken string which some believe signifies religious strife in the painter's homeland. Symbolizing mortality, what appears to be a distorted skull protrudes into the foreground.  Leaning on the upper shelf, next to some cartographical instruments and maps are George de Selve, Bishop of Lavaur and Jean de Dinteville two French men who are, FTP, what envoys to the Pope and England respectively, the title of a work by Hans Holbein the Younger?	The Ambassadors (accept before the appropriate clue, Jean de Dinteville and Georges de Selve, The Ambassadors)	Hans_Holbein_the_Younger	False
1561	"His early poems appeared in such collections as Look, Stranger! On This Island, and The Orators. After immigrating to America in the 1940s he published other works of verse, including The Quest, a sonnet sequence, and The Sea and the Mirror, a commentary on the Tempest, but it may be for individual works like his elegies on Freud and Yeats, and his rumination on the Spanish Civil War, ""Spain 1937,"" that he is remembered. FTP, name this poet known for his stage collaborations with Christopher Isherwood, as well as his long poem ""The Age of Anxiety."""	W. H. Auden	W._B._Yeats	False
1562	His last major accomplishment was a filming trip with his field assistant, Julia Averkieva, when he was 70 years old.  With Ella Delora he coauthored Dakota Grammar a far cry from his first publication, Growth of Children.  His most famous work was done amongst the Kwakiutl Indians and during his excursions to Baffin Island.  These resulted in works like The Mind of the Primitive Man and the respect of students like Edward Sapir and Ruth Benedict.  FTP, name this founder of American anthropology.	Franz Boas	Ruth_Benedict	False
1563	"In the fifth and final chapter of this essay the author presents a list of those things commonly classified as just or unjust.  This is one part of the author's dismissal of the moral claims of previous thinkers, particularly Kant.  Instead, he implies the existence of a specific standard that serves as the foundation of morality.  We learn that such a standard determines the foundation of justice and morality solely by ""actions that are right in proportion as they tend to promote happiness.""  FTP, identify this 1861 essay whose title names the philosophy of its author, John Stuart Mill."	"""Utilitarianism"""	Immanuel_Kant	False
1564	"In short works such as ""Parliament Hill"" and ""Morning Song"" she celebrated her status as a parent, other poems like ""Blackberrying"" render an esoteric view of her natural surroundings. But the struggle for control evidenced in volumes such as Crossing the Water and Winter Trees also color her most famous lines included in a 1965 collection named after her horse. She writes, ""Out of the ash/ I rise with my red hair/ And I eat men like Hair,"" in the persona of ""Lady Lazarus,"" and discusses torturing her father in ""Daddy."" FTP identify this poet who killed herself by sticking her head in an oven and whose well known works include The Colossus and the aforementioned Ariel."	Sylvia Plath	Cat_on_a_Hot_Tin_Roof	False
1565	"Foe is a rewrite of Robinson Crusoe, while the collection Dusklands contains ""The Vietnam Project,"" and focuses on the recurring theme of war. Colonel Joll stirs up fears of a native ""threat,"" thus disrupting the equanimity of a town previously ruled peacefully by the Magistrate in his allegorical Waiting for the Barbarians. Another recent novel features former professor David Lurie and his daughter Lucy being attacked by three black men.  The racial problems of his homeland are a recurring theme in the fiction of, FTP, what South African author of Disgrace and The Life and Times of Michael K?"	"J.M. Coetzee (accept before ""novel"": Disgrace)"	Robinson_Crusoe	False
1566	At a dinner party the protagonist is insulted by the professor and offends the wife after criticizing a painting of Goethe. He has left his own wife Erica and eventually ends up at the Black Eagle tavern, where he is talked into asking the beautiful Maria to dance. He later eschews a threesome with her and Pablo, after realizing that he really loves another woman who has asked him to kill her. This all happens before his entrance into the hall of mirrors where he sees Hermine and his multiple selves while hanging out with Mozart. FTP identify this 1927 work that derives its name from the active and dynamic incarnation of wannabe lupine Harry Haller, a novel by Herman Hesse.	Steppenwolf	Steppenwolf_(novel)	True
1567	The use of stacks to implement this was inaugurated by Edsger Dijkstra in his development of a complier for ALGOL 60 and is used in now almost all compiled languages. Though such efficient algorithms as BinarySearch and quicksort are usually written to use this, its use on most Von Neumann machines makes an algorithm's runtime and memory usage greater than those of an analogous algorithm utilizing only iteration. For ten points, name the feature that an algorithm that calls itself is said to utilize.	"recursion (prompt on ""recursive"")"	Quicksort	False
1568	As the novel ends only twelve francs remain to raise the orphaned daughter. The family's economic downfall is predicated by a failed attempt at curing a clubfooted boy with the help of the chemist Homais, for in an attempt to hold Rodolphe Boulanger's interest the title character had begun to spend money recklessly. When this fails, she turns to the law clerk Leon Dupuis who loves her and grants her access to her husband's dwindling finances. FTP identify this 1857 work about Charles and his unhappy, ambitious wife Emma, written by Gustave Flaubert.	Madame Bovary	Madame_Bovary	True
1569	His literary study, The Traps of Faith, introduced the poetry of Juana Ines de la Cruz to the World, while the essay collection Conjunctions and Disjunctions considers the relationship between sex and religion, but his exploration of these subjects is better known in his poetry which includes such volumes as A Drift of Shadows and Salamandra. He also wrote a long poem to the planet Venus called Sun Stone and other works focusing on his nation's Indian heritage like Eagle or Sun and Luna Silvestre. FTP identify this Mexican author and nobel prize winner best known in America for his prose study The Labyrinth of Solitude.	Octavio Paz	Venus	False
1570	"It is the basis of the Hanbury-Brown-Twiss effect and the Gross-Pitaevskii equation demonstrates why it also works for atoms having a negative scattering length.  Problems with achieving it included the requirement that the deBroglie wavelength of the molecules becomes larger than their mean spacing.  Based on the ""grouping"" tendencies of bosons and used to achieve an atomic laser, it was created by cooling a gas of rubidium-87 atoms to below 170 nano-kelvin by Carl Wieman and Eric Cornell.  FTP, name this form of matter predicted by Satyendra and Albert in 1925."	BEC or Bose-Einstein Condensate or Bose-Einstein Condensation	Bose–Einstein_condensate	False
1571	Its subtitle is derived from a piece discarded by the Goddess Nugua from the dome of Heaven, which ends up in the mouth of a youth at birth. Characters in the novel include the protagonist's half-brother Huan, and his sister Cardinal Spring, all of whom descend from Madame Shih. Yet all is not well in the two compounds owned by the family: Black Jade perishes, while Phoenix's abuse of power and usurious practices are exposed as the Chia clan falls into ruin. FTP identify this 18th century work set in Peking which centers on PaoYu's family and is alternately known as The Story of the Stone.	The Dream of the Red Chamber or Hung Lou Meng (accept Story of the Stone before the question ends)	Phoenix_(mythology)	False
1572	Her son, Parthenopaeus, was one of the 7 against Thebes, while her later actions offended Aphrodite to such an extent that she turned this heroine into a lion. Actually, Aphrodite had interfered in her life once before, as this daughter of Schoeneus only married her husband, alternately called Melanion or Hippomenes, after being beguiled by the apples of the Hesperides during a race for her hand. FTP identify this swift-footed huntress suckled by a bear after being abandoned as a child and whose greatest feat may have been inflicting the first wound on the Calydonian boar during the namesake hunt.	Atalanta	Atalanta	True
1573	His second wife Valetta Swan accompanied him on his trip to Mexico to study peasant markets and later helped to publish his notes as the volumes Foundations in Faith and Morals and Scientific Theory of Culture.  During his time at the International African Institute where he met and wrote the introduction for his student Jomo Kenyatta, but he is best known for works like Sex and Repression in Savage Society, Coral Gardens and their Magic, and The Natives of Mailu. FTP identify this Polish anthropologist whose work in the Trobriand Islands resulted in his masterpiece Argonauts of the Western Pacific.	Bronislaw Malinowski	Jomo_Kenyatta	False
1574	The cantata The Lovers was completed late in his career, Hermit Songs  was first sung by Leontyne Price, while his work Knoxville  was inspired by James Agee. He premiered a setting of Dover Beach  on NBC in 1935 and spent some time in the early 1950s composing ballets including, Souvenirs  and Medea's Meditation , but he found greater acclaim for choral works like Prayers of Kierkegaard  and the opera Vanessa . FTP identify this composer of 2 symphonies, famed for The Rose Tree , the Capricorn Concerto  and the Adagio for Strings .	Samuel Barber	Samuel_Barber	True
1575	His navy won a major battle at Preveza under Khayr ad- Din, and his court included the architect Sinan and his vizier Ibrahim. He died while besieging the fortress of Szigetvar, and the later years of his reign where filled with civil struggles between his sons. But he is most famous for subduing Louis II of Hungary in a 1526 battle and for his expansionist campaign against the Safavids. FTP identify this Ottoman sultan whose 46 year reign saw great military and cultural advancements for the Turkish empire inherited from his father Selim the Grim.	Suleyman I or the Magnificent	Ottoman_Empire	False
1576	"Eliot quotes ""Seven Old Men"" in ""The Wasteland;"" and its ""The Mask"" is dedicated to Ernest Christophe, while ""The Swan"" is for Victor Hugo. Other animal subjects include the albatross and ""Cats"" who the speaker calls ""friends of science and ecstasy."" Though ""A Voyage to Cythera"" opens in a pastoral manner its topic quickly becomes a decomposing body. Usually divided into sections with titles roughly translating as ""Parisian Landscapes,"" ""Wine, Death, and Revolt,"" it begins with the part ""Spleen and Ideal,"" yet its most famous line comes from the preface and declares that the reader is both ""a hypocrite and a brother."" FTP identify this poetry collection published in 1857, a work by Charles Baudelaire."	Les Fleurs du Mal or Flowers of Evil	Charles_Baudelaire	False
1577	"Tanasukh identifies the transmigration of souls for this system of belief that first appeared under the dual leadership of the Fatimid caliph al-Hakim and his imam, Hamzah ibn'Ali. Bound by 7 principles of conduct, only an elite core group called the ""knowers,"" or uqqal, is allowed to participate fully in the religious services described by a text called the hikhma. FTP identify this extremely close-knit religious sect whose members for the most part live in Syria and Lebanon."	Druze	Umayyad_Caliphate	False
1578	"In a biography added to a 1640 edition of his works, Izaak Walton calls this writer another ""Picus Mirandola."" His own prose includes a satirical atack on the Jesuits, Ignatius his Conclave, a defense of ""self-homicide,""  Biathanatos, and the Devotions Upon Emergent Occasions. He also penned such lines as ""Go and Catch a Falling Star,"" and it is for poems such as ""The Sun Rising,"" ""The Canonization"", and ""The Flea""  for which he's best known. FTP identify this metaphysical poet of the Holy Sonnets and ""A Valediction Forbidding Mourning."""	John Donne	William_Walton	False
1579	"The author claims that they were as much revealed to him as written by him in two fits of inspiration roughly ten years apart. The fourth begins ""O trees of life when is your winter season?"" while the tenth starts ""that I may one day, leaving the vision of terror."" The author called them an attempt to view reality from an ""angelic"" perspective, and angels are a frequent theme. Dedicated to the author's patroness, Princess Marie von Thurn und Taxis, and written between 1911-1922. FTP, identify this cycle of poems written by Rainer Maria Rilke, and named for the castle near Trieste where they were written."	The Duino Elegies	Rainer_Maria_Rilke	False
1580	"It ends with an epilogue and a decision not to return to Mary or the world in general. His arrival in New York City is told through flashbacks, beginning with the verbal slip in his scholarship acceptance speech to his Southern town's elite and his participation in a blindfolded fistfight. He later meets Mr.Norton, is expelled from college, and joins up with Brother Jack, a communist, but Jack, as well as potential community leaders, Ras and Rev. Rinehart, come up short, and the novel ends with a violent riot in Harlem. FTP identify this 1952 work whose nameless narrator explains his titular condition by noting that others ""see only my surroundings, themselves, or figments of their imagination."""	Invisible Man	Invisible_Man	True
1581	In his many letters to his lifelong friend, Willibald Pirckheimer, he stressed geometry and measurement as the keys to understanding art and he turned notes and drawings into his best-known treatise, the Four Books on Human Proportions. After meeting Bellini in Venice he obtained a commission for the Madonna of the Rose Garlands. Back in Nuremberg he devoted himself to engravings including The Knight, Death, and the Devil , and Saint Jerome in His Study. His last monumental works are two large panels, depicting the Four Apostles. FTP identify this man most famous for his woodcut series Large Fortune, The Fall of Man, and the Apocalypse.	Albrecht Durer	Jerome	False
1582	His father enlarged his kingdom at the expense of the Wendish chiefdoms, and built a line of forts that allowed this prince to win his most famous battle. Taking advantage of internal rivalries among the Lombards, he launched an invasion of Northern Italy to free the Lombard Queen Adelaide, whom he later married, claiming parts of Northern Italy as a dowry. Invading again in 960 at the behest of a besieged Pope John XII, the Pope rewarded him by crowning him emperor. FTP, name this Saxon king who repulsed a 955 Magyar invasion at the battle of Lechfeld, the first Holy Roman Emperor.	Otto I (Otto the Great)	Alexander_Pope	False
1583	The chemist for whom this relation is named considered it to be a special case of the partition law applying to gases that do not react with their solvent, and it applies only to liquids at a constant temperature. In a vapor pressure diagram of a solution of two volatile liquids, the vapor pressure of each component approaches this model as the mole fraction of the components approaches zero. FTP, name this law of chemistry relating the concentration and the partial pressure of dissolved gases through its namesake constant, k-sub-H.	Henry's Law	Vapor_pressure	False
1584	The low and high structures of this mineral change to tridymite and cristobalite structure with increasing temperature and a pressure below 5 kilobars. The main component of radiolarians, it precipitates as chert or flint on ocean floors. Its Mohs hardness of seven and chemical stability enables this tectosilicate to survive mechanical weathering, and it persists as detrital grains to accumulate in sandstones. With varieties sardonyx, carnelian and citrine, FTP, name this common mineral, the simplest silicate.	Quartz	Quartz	True
1585	"Descendants of this poet include the authors of ""The Hollow of the Three Hills"" and ""Luke Havergal"". Her later subjects included her response to the death of a grandchild, published in Contemplations two centuries after her death. Losing her home to fire in the same year as the Great Fire of London, she wrote the lines ""The world no longer let me love / My hope and treasure lies above"" in ""Upon the Burning of Our House, July 18th, 1666."" Her first poems were published without her knowledge by her brother-in-law in a 1650 volume that gave her her nickname. FTP, name this American poet of the Massachusetts Bay Colony, the ""Tenth muse lately sprung up in America."""	Anne Dudley Bradstreet	Massachusetts	False
1586	Discovered in 1934, it was explained by Ilya Frank and Igor Tamm three years later. Caused by the displacement of atomic electrons, it combines to form a strong electromagnetic wave similar to that of a sonic boom. Appearing as a weak bluish-white light, identify this radiation produced by a beam of high-energy particles passing through a transparent medium at a speed greater than the speed of light in that medium, named, FTP, for the Russian physicist who first observed it.	Cerenkov effect or radiation	Speed_of_light	False
1587	"His efforts in opera were almost completely unsuccessful, chiefly due to the asinine libretti such as those used for Alfonso and Estrella, The Twin Brothers, and Fierribras. The inventor of the form ""Moments Musicaux"", his chamber works include the Grand Duo Piano Sonata in C Major, a series of Impromptus, and Fantasy in F Major, but he is better knwon for works in another genre that include ""Gretchen at the Spinning Wheel"", ""Hark, Hark, The Lark"", and ""The Doppelganger"". FTP name this composer, one of whose lieder, ""Die Forelle', formed the basis for the Piano Quintet in A Major named for it, The Trout."	Franz Schubert	Piano_sonata	False
1588	"Key concepts in this text are substance and attribute, where substance is the totality of the universe, and attribute is a property of the universe. The third section distinguishes between three forms of knowledge, and concerns the origins of the mind. The third and fourth sections analyze the relation between emotions and morality, and are titled ""On the Origin and Nature of the Emotions"" and ""Of Human Bondage."" The first section, ""Concerning God,"" argues for the coextension of God and the universe. For 10 points, name this work organized like Euclid's Elements, a pantheistic treatise by Baruch Spinoza."	Ethics	Ethics_(Spinoza)	True
1589	Late in life, he had an affair with his niece, a Ms. Denis. His decadent leanings show in The Worldly, a defense of luxury, and The Question of Zapata, which discusses contradictions in Christian dogma. He also wrote histories, including The Russian Empire Under Peter the Great, and Essays on the Customs and Sprits of Nations. His tragedies include Zaire and Mahomet, which presented the Prophet as an imposter. Other famous works include his poem Henriade, an epic about Henry IV, and his Letters Concerning the English. For 10 points, identify this French author of the philosophical satires Zadig and Candide.	Voltaire or Francois-Marie Arouet	Candide	False
1590	Synthetic versions of these compounds, such as 2,4,5-trichlorophenoxy acetic acid, were the active ingredient in Agent Orange. In nature, they stimulate the growth of adventitious roots, play a role in the abscission of leaves and fruits, and are the compounds which allow the plant to exhibit gravitropism and phototropism. FTP, name this class of hormones including indoleacetic acid that inhibits lateral growth and stimulates apical growth in most plants.	auxins	Acetic_acid	False
1591	Under standard conditions, this equation is usually simplified by noting that the ideal gas constant times the temperature divided by Faraday's constant is approximately equal to 0.0257 at 25 degrees Celsius.  Analysis using this equation in dilute aqueous solutions assumes that the water is pure and that the reaction quotient depends only on the chemicals in the redox reaction. For 10 points - identify this equation that relates the reaction quotient and number of moles in a reaction to the electrochemical cell potential.	Nernst equation	Redox	False
1592	"Among the ""instruments"" of torture on the right part of this work are a giant bagpipe, harp, and lute, and nude figures are devoured by cats, a giant rabbit, and insects. The other two panels are significantly cheerier, with the left panel depicting a nude male and female, as well as an older, robed male in the foreground, in front of a fanciful lake surrounded by animals including a giraffe, elephant and flock of birds. In the central panel, large groups of nude figures cavort with deer, goats, giant birds and enormous fruit. FTP, name this painting in the Prado in Spain, the most famous work by Hieronymus Bosch"	The Garden of Earthly Delights	The_Garden_of_Earthly_Delights	True
1593	Rock carvings in Alta in this country run continuously for four millennia starting around 6000 BC, indicating the retreat of the sea after the last Ice Age. However, lasting settlements and political organization did not begin until approximately 600 AD, as evidenced by hill forts and stone farmhouses. Local councils known as tings began meeting before 900 AD, leading to the development of regional lawmaking assemblies. An excess of population and increasing militarization and navigating prowess led to the Viking Age in, FTP, what Scandinavian nation first united by Harald I in the late 800's?	Kingdom of Norway or Kongeriket Norge	Vikings	False
1594	"Notable biographies of this person were written in the 19th century by David Strauss and Ernest Renan, and when Renan delivered a lecture referring to him as ""an incomparable man"" he was promptly suspended from his professorship at the College de France.  He appears as the character Ha-Nozri in The Master and Margarita, and one of Jose Saramago's novels is entitled ""The Gospel According to"" him.  FTP, name this man represented by C.S. Lewis in the character of Aslan and by Nikos Kazantzakis in the title character of a novel about a last temptation."	Jesus Christ (either name acceptable)	José_Saramago	False
1595	Events in this novel include a visit to Bald Hills to arrange a marriage between Marya and Anatol, which is dashed after an apparent tryst with Madam Bourienne. Nikolai arrives at Olmutz to receive a letter from Boris, Schmidt's death in battle leads to an appearance at the court of Vienna, and Dolgorukhov's rejection of truce terms precipitates the final scene. FTP, name this novel which opens at a party at the house of Anna attended by Pierre, Prince Vasily, and Prince Andrei, written by Leo Tolstoy.	War and Peace [or Voyna i mir]	War_and_Peace	True
1596	"He became a member of the editorial board for The Contemporary, but left the literary milieu for his estate in Spasskoye where he wrote A Nest of Gentlefolk  His novel Virgin Soil described the revolutionary movement of the 1870s, and Smoke demonstrated his bitterness toward the Russian class system.  His Sportsman's Sketches was called ""the Uncle Tom's Cabin of Russia"" for the influence it had in liberating the serfs.  However, he is better known for the story A Month in the Country and an 1862 work featuring the character Bazarov.  FTP, name this Russian who coined the term ""nihilism"" in Fathers and Sons."	Ivan Turgenev	Fathers_and_Sons_(novel)	False
1597	Members of this religion observe the 9 holy days and fast 19 days a year.  They hold sacred anything written by its founders, including The Most Holy Book, The Book of Certitude, and The Seven Valleys.  Its founders were its most important prophets, including Siyyid Ali-Muhammad and the messianic figure Mirza Husayn-Ali-I-Nun.  Their teachings advocate the elimination of all prejudice and the creation of a world government that recognizes the oneness of all religions.  FTP, identify this religion founded by men better known as the B? and Bah?u'll?.	Baha'I	Prophet	False
1598	"Early on his ideas were considered quite controversial, and he produced pithy one-liners, such as ""no entity without identity"", and ""to be is to be the value of a bound variable"". His last work was The Roots of Reference and he later on became identified with the mainstream of analytic philosophy in writings like From a Logical Point of View and ""Two Dogmas of Empiricism."" FTP, name this student of Carnap, an American philosopher most famed for ""Word and Object."""	Willard van Orman Quine	Willard_Van_Orman_Quine	True
1599	"His prose collection, The Necessary Angel, released when the author was 72, asserted that poetry was ""the supreme fiction.""  In his 60s he echoed Baudelaire's notion that beauty is inextricably linked with evil in ""Esth?ique du Mal.""  Later poems include ""The Plain Sense of Things"" and ""A Quiet Normal Life,"" but he's better known for early works like ""The Snow Man,"" ""The Idea of Order at Key West,"" and ""Thirteen Ways of Looking at a Blackbird.""  FTP, name this American author of the poems ""Sunday Morning,"" ""Peter Quince at the Clavier,"" and ""The Emperor of Ice Cream."""	Wallace Stevens	Thirteen_Ways_of_Looking_at_a_Blackbird	False
1600	"The discovery of this group of substances was influenced by earlier experiments by Charles Darwin, Boysen-Jensen, and Paal.  Frits Went removed the tips from coleoptiles, and placed them face down on blocks of agar for about an hour.  The blocks could then be attached to the original plant in order to make it resume growth or bend, proving that the stimulus was chemical.  Also responsible for the maintenance of apical dominance and the initiation of root formation in cuttings, FTP, identify this class of plant hormones including indoleacetic acid, named by Went from the Greek word for ""increase."""	auxins	Charles_Darwin	False
1601	In this religion, initiation from lay status, or jahil, to clerical, or aqil, is forbidden.  Its holy text is the Kitab al-hikma, and followers of this religion prefer the name Muwahhidun.  Founded in the tenth century by Hamza ibn Ali and Muhammad al-Darzai, this religion promotes the divinity of the sixth Fatimid caliph and Ismaili imam, al-Hakim, as divine.  This religion allows its followers to conceal their faith when among outsiders.  FTP, identify this religion based in Syria, Lebanon, Israel, and Jordan that is thought to be an abrogation of Islam.	Druze	Umayyad_Caliphate	False
1602	This dispute started over a civil war in which one side favored the Blanco regime, while another sought military reprisals for injuries upon their subjects.  Culminating in the final Battle of Cerro Cor? this war was declared on another participant after Bartolom?Mitre refused to allow troops to cross his territory.  A secret alliance, made by Brazil and Argentina with General Venancio Flores of the Colorado faction, brought Uruguay into this war.  Begun by the dictator Francisco Solano L?ez, FTP, identify this 1865-70 South American conflict that pitted Paraguay against three nations.	War of the Triple Alliance	Paraguayan_War	False
1603	One of its key terms represents the activities of the species in the generalized version of this equation, where the activities of gases are usually taken as their partial pressures and the activities of solutes are taken as their molar concentrations.  At standard temperature and pressure, this equation is also capable of calculating the electric potential of a cell.  Stated in equation form as delta G equals delta G naught plus R times T times the natural log of the reaction quotient, FTP, identify this chemistry equation named after the formulator of the third law of thermodynamics.	Nernst equation	Bernoulli's_principle	False
1604	"He founded a group of amateur actors known as the Serpent Players and developed the concept of ""pure theater"" after coming across the ideas of drama theorist Jerzy Grotowski.  He produced his first play, No-Good Friday, in 1958 and collaborated with John Kani and Winston Ntshona on such dramas as The Island and Sizwe Bansi is Dead.  His work Tsotsi depicted Sophiatown ghetto existence, while Playland is set on the eve of Nelson Mandela's release from prison.  FTP, identify this South African playwright perhaps best known for ""MASTER HAROLD""...and the Boys and The Blood Knot."	Athol Fugard	Nelson_Mandela	False
1605	This nation's highest point is Tajumulco Volcano, which forms part of the Sierra Madre range.  Principle rivers include the Motagua and Usumacinta, and one third of its territory lies in the Pet? region.  Prominent cities include Mixco and Villa Nueva, suburbs of the capital and largest city, and the southern trade center Quetzaltenango.  After Spanish, the most prominent language in this country is the Mayan tongue Quich?  The third largest country in Central America after Nicaragua and Honduras, FTP, identify this nation that is home to Miguel Asturias and Rigoberta Mench?.	Guatemala	Nicaragua	False
1606	Towards the end of this dynasty the Imperial Tutor Zhang Juzheng attempted to reinstate many obsolete government reforms, gaining power over Emperor Zhu Yijun, or the Wanli Emperor.  Other rulers included Zhu Di, or the Yongle Emperor, whose most important act was dispatching the eunuch admiral Zheng He on a south seas expedition; and Zhu Zhanji, the fifth emperor of this dynasty.  Its end was precipitated by Li's Rebellion and Nurhaci's victory in Manchuria.  FTP, identify this Chinese dynasty that was founded by Zhu Yuanzhang and best known for its vases.	Ming Dynasty	Ming_dynasty	True
1607	He wears a tiger skin and bears an obsidian blade.  He once seduced the goddess Xochiquetzal because he thought such a lovely goddess would be a good match for a warrior.  The ruler of the north sector of the universe, or Mictlan, his glyph was the tecpatl, or flint knife.  Also called Yaotl, his primary attribute was a smoking mirror in the center of his chest and he brought the practice of human sacrifice to his worshippers.  In constant opposition to Quetzalcoatl, FTP, identify this primary Aztec deity of evil.	Tezcatlipoca	Quetzalcoatl	False
1608	The common factor in rotational kinetic energy and angular momentum, it can be found using the parallel axis and perpendicular axis theorems by accounting for the mass distribution.  When multiplied by the angular acceleration, it yields the net torque in a system and forms an integral part in rotational motion.  FTP, identify this concept in physics that is considered the rotational analog of mass and is generally designated I.	moment of inertia	Angular_momentum	False
1609	Of its four basic varieties, celsian is the least frequently occurring, with its main constituent tetrahedra linked by barium ions.  This group can be divided into two classes: the alkali, composed of microcline, orthoclase, and sanidine; and the plagioclase, composed of the pure sodium and pure calcium varieties, knows as albite and anthorite, respectively.  This group of aluminum silicates tends to form colorless, white, or pink crystals.  FTP, identify this group of minerals that rates 6 on the Mohs' hardness scale, the most abundant minerals in the earth's crust.	feldspar	Feldspar	True
1610	"His death was the subject of poems by William Cullen Bryant, Langston Hughes, and Vachel Lindsay, the second-most famous resident of his hometown.  Edwin Arlington Robinson wrote him a tribute called ""The Master,"" and Herman Melville wrote one called ""The Martyr,"" which begins: ""Good Friday was the day / Of the prodigy and crime, / When they killed him in his pity, / When they killed him in his prime.""  FTP, name this leader most famously mourned by Walt Whitman in ""When Lilacs Last in the Dooryard Bloom'd"" and ""O Captain! My Captain!"""	Abraham Lincoln	When_Lilacs_Last_in_the_Dooryard_Bloom'd	False
1611	"Called ""a squanderbird"" by her husband, she rejects the assistance offered by Dr. Rank, who confesses his love for her, and receives a card signaling his death at the same time her crime is revealed.  With the help of Christine Linde, she attempts to charm the man who discovers her secret, but to no avail.  She saved her husband when he was ill by secretly taking out a loan so they could travel to Italy, but forged her father's signature on the bond because he was dying.  Nils Krogstad reveals the secret to her husband Torvald after he is fired.  FTP, name this protagonist of Henrik Ibsen's A Doll's House."	Nora Helmer	A_Doll's_House	False
1612	He opened trade with England through the Muscovy Company and conquered Kazan and Astrakhan.  His reign saw the unsuccessful Livonian War, as well as the execution of Filipp Kolych?, head of the church, and Prince Vladimir Staritsky, his chosen successor, during a period of oppression known as the oprichnina.  He farcically abdicated for a year in favor of Simeon Bekbulatovich in 1575, and later killed his heir Ivan Ivanovich, leaving his feebleminded son Fyodor as the only heir.  FTP, identify this man essentially succeeded by Boris Godunov, the first Russian tsar.	Ivan IV or Ivan the Terrible or Ivan Groznyi	Boris_Godunov	False
1613	In 1925, Samuel Goudsmit and George Uhlenbeck theorized its existence to explain some aspects of the periodic table, as well as fine structure.  It explains the results of the Stern-Gerlach experiment, in which an inhomogeneous magnetic field split a seemingly uniform beam of silver atoms into two beams.  Pauli suggested that it must have only two values, which are now defined as plus or minus one half.  FTP, name this quantum number, usually symbolized as m-sub-s.	spin angular momentum	Stern–Gerlach_experiment	False
1614	"The spurning of Madame Hohlakov proves to have tragic effects.  Near the end, most are entertained by Ippolit Kirillovitch's speech, while his opponent Fetyukovitch claims that Mitya has been attempting to repay Katerina Ivanovna and that the 3000 rubles never existed.  A subplot involves the antipathy of Father Ferapont for Father Zossima and discussions include ""The Legend of the Grand Inquisitor.""  The testimonies of Grigory and Grushenka prove damning as Smerdyakov had committed suicide without revealing the truth.  FTP, name this Dostoevsky novel, featuring Alyosha, Ivan and Dmitri."	The Brothers Karamazov or Bratya Karamazovy	The_Brothers_Karamazov	True
1615	His early work included an essay on the intermaxillary bone and The Metamorphosis of Plants.  He attacked Newton's Opticks with his own Theory of Colors, though he is better known for his literary endeavors, including his poetic essay Prometheus, which spawned a short-lived philosophical school.  His prose drama Iphigenia in Tauris earned him some acclaim, though he is better remembered for his Roman Elegies and the drama Egmont.  A major proponent of the Sturm und Drang movement, FTP, identify this German author of Elective Affinities, The Sorrows of Young Werther, and Faust.	Johann Wolfgang von Goethe	The_Sorrows_of_Young_Werther	False
1616	The major types are Tamattu, Quiran, and Ifrad.  It is usually coupled with Umrah, which includes performing Tawaf.  Its supererogatory acts include performing Talbiah, Ramal and Idtibah, spending the night of Arafah in Muzdalifah, and washing the whole body upon entering into the state of Ihram.  If a slave performs it and then gains his freedom, he must do it again, while a husband cannot forbid a wife from performing the obligatory one.  FTP, although it can be performed by proxy under certain conditions, most Muslims are required to undertake what pilgrimage at least once in their lifetimes?	Hajj	Hajj	True
1617	An enormous wave can be seen on the left of this painting, while in the top right is the almost imperceptible image of a ship in the distance.  Measuring an enormous 16 feet by 23 1/2 feet, it uses a famous triangular scheme to depict its subject.  On the bottom are those who have already died, above which is a cluster of sailors waving their shirts at the distant ship.  Depicting a notorious maritime disaster of 1816, FTP, what is this most famous painting by Theodore Gericault?	The Raft of the Medusa or Scene of Shipwreck	The_Night_Watch	False
1618	The protagonist turns down a job working with his friend Fouque in the lumber business because he desires a noble title, which he is finally given so that he can marry Mathilde, who he has impregnated.  Using his photographic memory, he quickly advances at the Besancon seminary under Pirard, who soon secures for him the position of personal secretary to the Marquis de la Mole, but his ambitions to follow his hero Napoleon are shattered when his previous indiscretions are exposed by his first love Mme. de Renal.  FTP, what is this work about Julien Sorel, the best known work of Stendhal?	The Red and the Black	The_Red_and_the_Black	True
1619	Quartz crystals are used most often industrially in this effect because of their tensile strength and resistance to high temperatures.  Its reverse effect can be seen if a quartz plate is subjected to an alternating electric field, causing the quartz to expand and contract at the field frequency, and the plate can be made to resonate if the field frequency coincides with the elastic frequency.  In the standard effect, the electric polarization produced is proportional to the stress applied.  FTP, identify this effect that occurs when a crystal is subjected to mechanical pressure, creating an electric potential.	piezoelectric effect or piezoelectricity	Quartz	False
1620	One side began marching from Corinth, where the other army thought they would remain.  Thus, Halleck wired Grant erroneously telling him to wait for Buell's forces to arrive.  The Union set up their line and attempted to hold the Sunken Road, where General Prentiss defended near Sarah Bell's peach orchard in an area called the Hornet's Nest.  After the arrival of Buell's army, the Confederates under A. S. Johnston were finally repelled, leaving Memphis and Vicksburg susceptible to Union attack.  FTP, identify this April 6, 1862 battle in Tennessee also known as Pittsburg Landing.	Battle of Shiloh (accept early Battle of Pittsburg Landing)	Battle_of_Shiloh	True
1621	In the second and third steps of this biochemical reaction, the enzyme aconitase promotes the dehydration of the first product, yielding cis-aconitate, and then isocitrate.  Malate dehydrogenase is the enzyme that contributes to the final product, which is recycled in this reaction to yield citrate after coupling with another two-carbon compound.  Involving the conversion of NAD+ to NADH and FAD to FADH2, this reaction produces oxaloacetate, which binds to said two-carbon compound.  FTP, identify this cycle of cellular respiration that starts by bonding acetyl CoA to pyruvate.	Krebs cycle or tricarboxylic acid cycle or citric acid cycle	Citric_acid_cycle	True
1622	"His first novel was burned at the Leoncio Prado Military School, which served as its setting.  His essays include criticisms of Flaubert, Sartre, and Camus and the 1971 work Garcia Marquez: Story of a God-Killer.  The jungle of his native country is the setting of his novel The Green House, and an accidentally castrated adolescent is portrayed in his short story ""The Cubs.""  Other novels by this author include Captain Pantoja and the Special Service and Conversation in the Cathedral.  FTP, identify this author of The Time of the Hero and Aunt Julia and the Scriptwriter, who ran unsuccessfully for the presidency of Peru."	Mario Vargas Llosa	Aunt_Julia_and_the_Scriptwriter	False
1623	A graph of this equation's terms natural log of k and 1 over T results in a straight line with a gradient of its exponential term.  This equation uses a term called the frequency factor, which varies with the temperature, though its variance is small in relation to the exponential term, so it can be considered a constant.  The other constants that appear in the equation are the Stefan-Boltzman constant, Euler's constant, and a constant based on how many ways the molecules can combine.  FTP, name this equation that relates the rate constant, the ambient temperature, and the activation energy of a reaction.	Arrhenius equation	Arrhenius_equation	True
1624	"The husband of the title character of this literary work is a scholar writing a book about the domestic handicrafts of Brabant in the Middle Ages. A recurring theme is the desire to ""die beautifully"", and is first seen when the protagonist uses her power over her husband's academic rival Eilert Lovborg to convince him to commit suicide, after which Judge Brack tries to blackmail the title character into sleeping with him. FTP, this is a brief description of what play named for the female protagonist, written by Henrik Ibsen?."	Hedda Gabler	Henrik_Ibsen	False
1625	In 1882 all organizations of this religion were divided into two groups, state shrines and sectarian churches. The written record of the ancient beliefs and customs first appeared in 712's Record of Ancient Matters. This religion worships a collection of extraordinary natural objects, gods and supernatural beings known as kami, while emperors were said to be descended from its sun goddess. FTP, name this major Japanese religion.	Shinto or Shintoism	Shinto	True
1626	Flaws in Schrodinger's equation or Bohr's formula can be corrected by introducing this value measured in multiples of a unit called the Dirac h, or h-bar. It was first proposed by Samuel Goudsmit and George Uhlenbeck to explain the spectra of light emitted by atoms of alkali metals. Calculated for complex nuclei by taking the vector sum of the intrinsic values for the constituent particles and their orbital angular momentum, it is zero for nuclei with even numbers of neutrons and protons in their ground states and for pions, while for electrons, neutrons, and protons the multiple involved is 1/2. FTP, what is this measure of the amount of angular momentum associated with a subatomic particle or nucleus?	spin	Atomic_nucleus	False
1627	"Failed romances helped inspire this composer's song cycle Lieder eines fahrenden Gesellen and the cantata Das Klagende Lied.  Director of the Imperial Opera of Vienna from 1897-1907, his death fixation helped shape his Kindertotenlieder,or ""Songs on the Death of Children"", and a year after his cancer diagnosis he wrote Song of the Earth.  FTP, name this Austrian-Jewish composer best-known for the Titan Symphony, the Resurrection Symphony, and the Symphony of a Thousand."	Gustav Mahler	Symphony_No._8_(Mahler)	False
1628	"One of this man's students was Jomo Kenyatta, and he wrote the introduction to Kenyatta's Facing Mount Kenya. Author of 1948's ""Magic, Science, and Religion"", he attacked Sigmund Freud's concept of the Oedipus complex using evidence collected on the Trobriand Islands. The founder of ""functionalism"", FTP, who was this Polish-born social anthropologist, the author of Argonauts of the Western Pacific?"	Bronislaw Malinowski	Jomo_Kenyatta	False
1629	In this play, the female protagonist's young son dies only a year after her husband's death, prompting a five year trip to Paris. The plot is set in motion by the need to pay for this trip and for Anya's return home. In response to this need for money, Gaev does nothing but play billiards and Varya merely prays. Lopakhin suggests a way to save the estate, but Madame Ranevsky rejects the plan, and her estate is lost.  FTP, name this play by Anton Chekhov, in which the title object is eventually chopped down.	The Cherry Orchard (or Vishnovy sad)	The_Cherry_Orchard	True
1630	"This composer of the ""Alto Rhapsody"" and ""Love-Song Waltzes"" expressed his artistic credo in the words, ""If we can not compose as beautifully as Mozart and Haydn, let us at least try to compose as purely.""  A meticulous worker, he did not complete the first of his four symphonies until age 43. Composer of ""Variations on a Theme of Haydn"" and the ""Four Serious Songs"", he is better-known for the ""Tragic"" and ""Academic Festival"" Overtures. FTP, name this composer of ""A German Requiem"" and a famous ""lullaby""."	Johannes Brahms	Joseph_Haydn	False
1631	"The death of this poet's second wife Frances Appleton prevented him from working for several years, but he eventually completed the religious poem ""Christus"". Renowned for his skill with languages, the early romanticism of such early works as ""Outre-Mer"", ""Voices of the Night"", and ""Hyperion"" soon gave way to a fascination with narrative forms and European meters, as seen in works like ""Tales of a Wayside Inn"". FTP, who was this 19th century poet, the author of ""Evangeline"" and ""Hiawatha""?"	Henry Wadsworth Longfellow	Henry_Wadsworth_Longfellow	True
1632	The region that now makes up this country was conquered by Rome in 58 BC, and afterwards was controlled by Swabia and Burgandy until the Holy Roman Empire gained the region in 1033. The march towards independence started with a 1291 defensive league formed by the states of Uri, Schwyz, and Unterwalden, which resulted in virtual independence from the Hapsburgs in 1499, with official independence recognized in the Peace of Westphalia. An alpine nation of 7 million divided into cantons, FTP, what is this country known for its neutrality?	Switzerland	Peace_of_Westphalia	False
1633	Extant classes of this phylum of animals include Crinoidea and Stelleroidea. They have a simple nervous system consisting of nerve rings, a rudimentary circulatory system, and no brain, and movement is achieved using a rounded muscular sac called an ampulla. Unique in their posession of a water vascular system and tube feet, their spiny skin gives them their name, and many of them have pentaradial symmetry. FTP, name this phylum which includes sea cucumbers, sea urchins, and starfish.	Echinodermata or Echinoderms	Echinoderm	True
1634	He wore a chain of seashells around his neck and a chain of rattles around his ankles, and he often wore a conical cap made from the skin of a jaguar.  He was once aided by vultures, an eagle, a coyote, a wolf, and hundreds of moles in digging up his slain father, the Sun.  He taught the Toltecs of Tula how to raise corn, but he was forced to flee by Tezcatlipoca.  FTP, name this Toltec and Aztec deity known as the plumed serpent god who was once confused with Hernando Cortez.	Quetzalcoatl	Tezcatlipoca	False
1635	It reached the height of its power when it defeated Waldemar IV of Denmark and signed the favorable Treaty of Straslund.  It still met as late as 1669, but it had not been a major power for over a century.  It began in part to facilitate trade of salt and herring for Kiel and Lubeck, but a 1241 mutual defense pact between Lubeck and Hamburg is considered its true beginning.  Consisting of up to 160 members, FTP, name this powerful league which controlled trade in the Baltic and North Sea regions for centuries.	the Hanseatic League or Hansa	Baltic_Sea	False
1636	Not easily oxidized, these compounds can be synthesized by using an organolithium reagent on a nitrile, followed by hydrolysis of the product.  Useful as solvents and flavorings, they can also be made by oxidizing a secondary alcohol.  They do not affect Fehling's solution and do not react with the Tollens reagent, which differentiates them from aldehydes.  FTP, name this class of compounds with a carbonyl group between two aryl groups, the simplest of which is acetone.	ketone(s)	Aldehyde	False
1637	"The possibilty of this phenomenon was discussed in a famous report by Turco, Toon, Ackerman, Pollack, and Sagan.  It may result from great fires, wind, and large quantities of smoke and dust.  Theoretically, these effects could reduce incoming solar radiation, resulting in the extreme cooling of the earth's surface, possibly to -15 to -25 Celsius.  FTP, name this two-word ""seasonal"" term, described as a severe deterioration of climate that might take place as a result of multiple H-bomb explosions on the earth's surface."	Nuclear Winter	Surface_tension	False
1638	As a book editor in the 1960s, this graduate of Howard University worked on the writings of Toni Cade Bambara, Gayl Jones, and several other black female writers.  During this period, she wrote her first novel, about the experiences of young black girls struggling to define themselves, The Bluest Eye, and she later won a Pulitzer Prize for her novel about a woman who tried to kill her children rather than allow them to be sent back into slavery.  FTP, name this author of Jazz, Sula, and Beloved.	Toni Morrison (or Chloe Anthony Wofford)	The_Bluest_Eye	False
1639	This man's autobiography was 1963's Memories, Dreams, and Reflections. Originally an assistant at the Burgholzli Clinic under Eugen Bleuler, he went on to develop the concept of shadow, the repressed and guilt laden part of the personality, as well as animus and anima, the male and female parts of the personality. He coined the terms extrovert and introvert in 1923's Psychological Types, while his broader application of the libido signaled his break with Freud. FTP, who was this Swiss analytical psychologist who developed the theory of the collective unconscious and wrote 1912's Psychology of the Unconscious?	Carl Gustav Jung	The_Interpretation_of_Dreams	False
1640	This figure is depicted as having four arms, in which he carries a club, shell, discus, and lotus. Also known as Hari and Narayana, at various times he takes the forms Kurma, Varaha, Narasimha, Matsya, Vamena, Rama, Krishna, and the Buddha. FTP, who is this kindly preserver god of Hinduism?	Vishnu (prompt on Hari or Narayana)	Vishnu	True
1641	The maximum energy involved in this effect is given by the equation h times f minus phi, and it will only occur if h is greater than the work function divided by the threshold frequency. Although it usually occurs with ultraviolet light, it can sometimes occur with sunlight. Discovered in 1887 by Hertz, FTP, what is this effect in which a surface exposed to electromagnetic radiation emits a stream of photons, most associated with the work of Albert Einstein?	photoelectric effect	Photoelectric_effect	True
1642	In the extended title of his most famous work this economist claims to respond to the speculations of William Godwin and the Marquis de Condorcet. From 1805-34 professor at the East India Company's college at Haileybury, he wrote 1820's Principles of Political Economy and An Inquiry into the Nature and Progress of Rent, but is best-known for a 1798 work in which he uses the argument that one element of society increases at an arithmetic rate, while another increases at a geometric rate, implying the need for moral restriant, crime, disease, war, and vice. FTP, who was this author of An Essay on the Principle of Population?	Thomas Malthus	Thomas_Robert_Malthus	False
1643	"This artist often appended to his paintings quotes from his putative epic poem ""The Fallacies of Hope"", which he never published and may never have written. Prone to outrageous claims, such as when he vowed he had been lashed to the stern of the ship Ariel in a blizzard in order to create ""Steamboat off a Harbour's Mouth"", he often gave his paintings grandiose titles, such as ""Slaves Throwing Overboard the Dead and the Dying-Typhoon Coming On"". Although is work was criticised by Constable as ""airy visions, painted with tinted steam"", Ruskin championed such works as ""Petworth"", Fighting Temeriere"", and ""Burning of the Houses of Parliament. FTP, who was this English painter perhaps best known for ""Rain, Steam and Speed"", ""The Slave Ship"", and ""Snowstorm:Hannibal Crossing the Alps""?"	Joseph Mallord William Turner	Hannibal	False
1644	"One city of this name was described by Homer as ""the Hundred Gated"", and stood on the site of modern Al-Uqsur. In Strabo's time it was reduced to a small village, but earlier had served as the Egyptian capital during the 11th dynasty. The one in Boeotia was famous for the seven gates supposedly built using the music of Amphion, and in 336 it was sacked by Alexander the Great, who famously ordered that only the House of Pindar be left standing. FTP, what is the name of these cities, the latter of which was the subject of a mythical attack by seven Greek leaders?"	Thebes	Winslow_Homer	False
1645	"The end of this historical event was put in motion with the publication of Ludvik Vaculik's editorial ""Two Thousand Words"", and saw  coltrol of the governemtn pass to Gustav Husak. In an attempt to avoid purges to remove hardline apparatchiks from the government, several measures had been passed on April 5 to ease restrictions on civil liberties and to bring about ""socialism with a human face"", but by August 27th a Soviet garrison was mandated, leading to the removal of Alexander Dubcek as First Secretary. FTP, what was this brief 1968 period of increaed freedom named for the capital of Czechoslovakia and the season during which it occurred?"	Prague Spring	Prague_Spring	True
1646	"Lesser known works of this thinker include ""Repition"", ""Dread"", and ""Crisis and the Crisis in the Life of an Actress"", written under such pseudonyms as Inter et Inter and Virgilius Haufnienses. His opposition to Hegel can be seen in the works written as Johannes Climaticus, including ""On All Things to be Doubted"", ""Philosophical Fragments"", and ""Concluding Unscientific Postscript"", while is analysis of the ""teleological suspension of the ethical"" is found in Fear and Trembling. FTP, name this Danish forerunner of existentialism, the author of ""Either/Or""."	Soren Kierkegaard	Georg_Wilhelm_Friedrich_Hegel	False
1647	This god held court at Svarga, his heaven in the clouds, and his attendant were called the Maruts. His most notable exploit was returning water to the earth by defeating the evil dragon Vritra, which he achieved by drinking large amounts of soma to take on giant form. The son of Dyaus Pita and Prthivi, from whom he was born fully grown and armed, he rode the great white elephant Airavata, and his most famous son was Arjuna. FTP, who was this supreme ruler of the gods in Vedic times, the husband of Indrani?	Indra	Arjuna	False
1648	Just to the left of center on the bottom of this painting is a spotted dog standing at the edge of the water, while on the far right is a man in the overgrowth on the opposite shore. A man is seen reaching into the water at the house which dominates the far left, while in the center two men are trying to navigate the shallow water with a cart drawn by several black animals with red bridles. FTP, what is this famous painting by John Constable?	The Hay Wain	Water	False
1649	Throughout this novel the author comments on the changing nature of Russian farm life through observations concerning the estate Maryino, while comic relief is provided by the vainglorious intellectuals Madame Kukshin and Sitnikov, who stand in contrast to Madame Odintsov. Its main plot concerns a young man who has a flirtation with Fenitchka and who believes that progress can only be achieved by rejecting the principles of the past, which the reader observes through his conversations with his protege Arkady and his arguments with Paval Kirsanov. FTP, what is this novel about the nihilist Bazarov, the best-known work of Ivan Turgenev?	Fathers and Sons	Fathers_and_Sons_(novel)	True
1650	This author left unfinished the poetic drama Politian, and shortly before his death finished the essay Eureka. Rising to fame with early works like Al Aaraaf, Berenice, and Hans Pfaal, many of his greatest short stories were published in his first collection, Tales of the Grotesque and Arabesque, but he considered himself mainly a poet, turning out such works as Ulalume, Sonnet-To Science, and The Conquerer Worm. FTP, who was this master of the short story responsible for tales like A Descent Into the Maelstrom, The Masque of the Red Death, and The Gold Bug?	Edgar Allan Poe	Sonnet	False
1651	The Great Karroo can be found in the south of this country which contains four regions, Venda, Ciskei, Bophuthatswana, and Transkei, which were declared independent from 1976-94. On its west coast are False Bay and St. Helena Bay, while on its east coast are the ports of Durban and Port Elizabeth. In the southeast is the Drakensberg Mountain Range, while rivers which have their source here include the Vaal and Limpopo. FTP, what is this country whose three capitals are Bloemfontein, Cape Town, and Pretoria?	Republic of South Africa	South_Africa	True
1652	Among the exploits of the mythological figure were the capture of the Marathonian bull and the slaying of the Crommyonian sow. In his old age his unpopulatity forced him to take refuge in Scyros, where he was murdered by Lycomedes. Earlier, he had left home after becoming strong enough to lift the stone under which his father Aegeus' sword was hidden, and went on to marry Phaedra, who bore him the son Hippolytus. FTP, who was this chief hero of Attica who, with the aid of Ariadne, slew the Minotaur?	Theseus	Theseus	True
1653	"This ruler died during his siege of Szigeth in his war with Austria. Establisher of the Corsair States in north Africa, he developed a series of new regulations concerning land tenure which earned him the nickname Qanuni, or Lawgiver, among his people. In three camapigns against Safavid Persia he confirmed Ottoman control of eastern Asia Minor, maintained a naval supremacy in the eastern Mediterranean marred only by his costly failure to take Malta, and advanced all the way to the middle Danube with his victory at Mohacs in 1526. FTP, who was this Ottoman sultan, known as the ""Magnificent""?"	Suleiman I or Suleiman the Magnificent	Ottoman_Empire	False
1654	One of the key ideas of this novel is the comparison made by Mozart between life and a radio playing Handel's Concerto Grosso in F Major, while another major moment is the protagonist's dream of a conversation with Goethe while sleeping at the The Black Eagle. The title figure is forced to reevaluate his life after meeting the bandleader Pablo and Hermine, and after visiting the Magic Theater he begins to realize the errors of his earlier way of life, in which the conflict between his intellectual ideals and his animal impulses led to his estarangment from society. FTP, such describes what novel about Harry Haller by Hermann Hesse?	Der Steppenwolf	Steppenwolf_(novel)	False
1655	Some of this poet's notable works include Robert of Lincoln, The Fountain, and The Flood of Years. A direct descendant of John and Priscilla Alden, he influenced politics as editor of the New York Evening Post, but is most important today for works written in his youth, including a satirical poem attacking Jefferson entitled The Embargo and the short poem To a Waterfowl. FTP, who was this first great American poet most famous for Thanatopsis?	William Cullen Bryant	Thanatopsis	False
1656	The protagonist of this novel and Herbert Pocket are discovered by the police trying to help their friend escape London due to a tip provided by the criminal Compeyson, while at the same time the woman the protagonist loves marries Bentley Drummle. A key moment occurs when the lawyer Jaggers informs the protagonist that he has been given a large fortune, leading him to mistreat his brother-in-law Joe Gargary, but he soon learns that his benefactor is not Miss Havisham but rather Abel Magwitch. FTP, such is a partial description of what novel about Philip Pirrip, written by Charles Dickens?	Great Expectations	Great_Expectations	True
1657	"One of the best of this man's early poems was ""Neutral Tones"", and he described his first meetings with his wife in a group of poems known as Veteris Vestigiae Flammae, or Vestiges of an Old Flame. Due to prompting by George Meredith he wrote a novel, Desperate Remedies, and began a series of novels set in an imaginary county of England in Under the Greenwood Tree, while his more famous works include The Trumpet-Major, and The Dynasts. FTP, who was this English writer, author of Far From the Madding Crowd and Jude the Obscure?"	Thomas Hardy	Jude_the_Obscure	False
1658	In the presence of hydrogen and nickel at 180 degrees Celsius this compound will reduce to cyclohexane. Remarkably resistant to oxidation, the fact that it does not show the properties normally associated with double bonds and the fact that the number of isomeric disubstituted ones is smaller than predicted led Linus Pauling to describe its structure as a hybrid state, which explains the odd distance of 1.39 angstroms between the bonded carbon atoms. This was an improvement on an 1865 proposal that its formula was a hexagon with alternating single and double bonds. FTP, what is this simplest aromatic hydrocarbon with formula C6 H6, whose original structure was proposed by August Kekule after experiencing a dream in which a snake bit its own tail?	benzene	Cyclohexane	False
1659	Several methods to detect this particle rely on its interactions with isotopes, including its conversion of gallium-71 to germanium-71 and chlorine-37 to radioactive argon, the latter of which is used at the Homestake gold mine observatory in South Dakota. Postulated in 1931 to account for the missing energy in beta decay, it was tenitively identified in 1953 and more definitely in 1956, has no charge, and is thought to travel at the speed of light and have zero rest mass, although in some grand unified theories it is predicted to have nonzero mass. FTP, what are these leptons associated with the tau particle, muons, and electrons?	neutrinos	Electron	False
1660	"The godson of Anthony Koberger, this artist wrote the theoretical studies Treatise on Measurement and Four Books on Human Proportions. Called ""the Apelles of black lines"" by Erasmus, his early works include illustrations for Brant's Ship of Fools and the Paumgarter Alter, while mature work's like Feast of the Rose-garlands were intended to compete with the best Italian paintings. His best-known works came from his middle period, including St. Jerome in his Study and The Knight, Death and the Devil. FTP, name this great German Renaissance artist and engraver, creator of the Apocalypse series."	Albrecht Durer	Erasmus	False
1661	The protagonist of this novella is inspired to travel by the sight of a man standing before a mortuary chapel, while symbolically important is his encounter with an old man who has joined a group of young clerks by donning a wig and false teeth. The protagonist, the acclaimed author of Maia and The Abject, sees his prized discipline and reasonableness desert him after encountering a vacationing Polish family, whose youngest member, the charming youth Tadzio, captivates the protagonist and leads him to his downfall. FTP, what is this work about Gustav von Aschenbach, arguably the best-known novella by Thomas Mann?	Death in Venice	Death_in_Venice	True
1662	Questa o quella is a notworthy aria in this opera, one of the few post-1830's operas to feature the baritone as the chief protagonist. The action is driven by a curse placed by Monterone on the protagonist, who is soon approached by the assassin Sparafucile, who is soon paid to kill the libertine Duke of Mantua. However, Maddalena falls for the duke and has Sparafucile spare him, after which he mistakenly kills Gilda, the protagonist's daughter. Featuring the aria La donne e mobile, FTP, what is this opera about a court jester by Verdi?	Rigoletto	Rigoletto	True
1663	This author's novel Mr. Stone and the Knight's Companion marked a change in style from his first three novels, The Mystic Masseur, The Suffrage of Elvira, and Miguel Street. His recent work includes the novel A Way of the World, and he won a Booker Prize for In a Free State, but he is better known for works like A Bend in the River. FTP, who is this Trinidadian novelist, author of A House For Mr. Biswas and winner of the 2001 Nobel Prize in literature?	V(idiadhar) S(urajprassad) Naipaul	A_House_for_Mr_Biswas	False
1664	Swelling and the appearance of calcium deposits in this organelle signify that the cell is undergoing necrosis. Bounded by a smooth outer membrane, its inner membrane consists of several shelf-like folds called cristae. Possessing its own type of DNA, it contains the machinery for synthesizing proteins. FTP, what is this organelle which provides energy for animal cells.	mitochondrion (or mitochondria)	Cell_membrane	False
1665	"One of this composer's highly influential works was his String Octet in E-flat Major. Also an important conductor whose performance of the St. Matthew Passion rejuvenated the reputation of Bach, this composer of the ""Elijah"" oratorio was inspired by the waves on the Scottish coast, leading to the ""Hebrides"" overture. FTP, who was this composer of ""A Midsummer Night's Dream"" Overture and the ""Italian"" Symphony?"	Felix Mendelssohn	Johann_Sebastian_Bach	False
1666	"In his earliest works he argued for as disassociation between psychology and philosophy in order to fully understand man. More specific doctrinal criticisms grew out of his studies with Heinrich Rickert and are expressed in such works as _Kant and the Problem of Metaphysics _ and _What is Called Thinking? _.  His most controversial comments were made with his Freiburg acceptance speech, entitled ""The German University's Self-Affirmation"" which many saw as an affirmation of Nazism. The developer of ""dasein"", FTP identify this philosopher who argued that man was thrown into existence and is always struggling for an authentic existence in his 1927 masterpiece _Being and Time _."	Martin Heidegger	Martin_Heidegger	True
1667	"One of his teachers in college once told him of the importance of kissing in American culture, prompting him to practice on an oak tree. He had reluctantly enrolled in college because his goal of becoming a forest ranger required that he learn Latin, but after switching to French literature he wrote a national award-winning story about a boy's friendship with an African-American POW entitled ""The Catch."" Later works like ""A Personal Matter"" often deal with the birth of his brain-damaged son.  FTP, name this 1994 Japanese Nobel Laureate, author of ""The Silent Cry""."	Kenzaburo Oe	Catch-22	False
1668	His songs include words by Housman, Hopkins, Yeats, and Stephens, and he set to music James Joyce's Chamber Music.  His operas include A Hand of Bridge and Antony and Cleopatra and he composed the Capricorn Concerto for flute, oboe, trumpet, and strings.  Known for the vocal piece Dover Beach, his best known opera is Vanessa.  For 10 points, name this American composer best-known for Adagio for Strings.	Samuel Barber	A._E._Housman	False
1669	"Chapter three, entitled, ""Of the Consequence or Train of the Imaginations"" asserts that the continuance of motion is responsible for human thinking. The third part claims that the universe is a plenum containing no angels or apparitions, thus undermining orthodox Christianity, and is entitled ""Of A Christian Commonwealth."" Finally, the fourth part, ""Of the Kingdom of Darkness"", builds up the authors materialist program. Famous for its description of man in a state of nature, FTP, identify this work describing the ""Matter, Form and Power of a Commonwealth"", written by Thomas Hobbes."	Leviathan	Leviathan_(Hobbes_book)	True
1670	"He wrote a series of parodies of his favorite authors published in Le Figaro entitled ""The Lemon Affair,"" while his theories on the universal function of literature can be seen in ""Contre Saint-Beuve"". Author of the collection of sketches Pleasures and Days, his work on the novel Jean Santeuil contained the seeds of his most famous work, whose sections include ""The Sweet Cheat Gone"" and ""Swann's Way"". FTP, identify this French author of The Remembrance of Things Past."	Marcel Proust	In_Search_of_Lost_Time	False
1671	"The climax of this novel occurs on the narrator's thirtieth birthday, when he declares ""I'm five years too old to lie to myself and call it honor.""  Descended from the Dukes of Buccleuch, the narrator had come east to learn the bond business. He is constantly offered ""gonnegtions"" by the wily Jew purported to have fixed the 1919 World Series, Meyer Wolfsheim, becomes involved with Jordan Baker, and becomes privy to the secrets of the title character, who loves Daisy Buchanan.  Narrated by Nick Carraway, FTP, what is this most-famous novel by F. Scott Fitzgerald?"	The Great Gatsby	The_Great_Gatsby	True
1672	Perhaps in anticipation of his death, this author posed in photographs as a shipwrecked sailor and St. Sebastian shot dead with arrows.  Author of the dramas The Moon Like a Drawn Bow and My Friend Hitler, he is more famous for his novels, such as 1950's Thirst for Love.  Among his best works were the novels Spring Snow, Runaway Horses, The Temple of Dawn, and Five Signs of a God's Decay, which made up the tetralogy The Sea of Fertility. Famous for committing seppuku in 1970,  FTP, identify this Japanese writer most famous for The Temple of the Golden Pavilion.	Yukio Mishima	Adolf_Hitler	False
1673	"The intent of the Federal advance in this battle was to seize the Memphis & Charleston Railroad.  The Union counterattack was led by Major General Lewis Wallace on April 7, against which Beauregard managed a tenacious defense.  Beginning when Confederate forces launched an offense attempting to push the Union, led by Grant, into the swamps at Owl Creek, the Confederate flank attack was stalled at Sarah Bell's peach orchard and the ""hornet's nest,"" during which General A. S. Johnston was killed.  FTP, identify this early battle of the Civil War that took place at Pittsburg Landing."	Battle of Shiloh (accept Battle of Pittsburg Landing on early buzz)	Battle_of_Shiloh	True
1674	"One of his aspects is the cosmic dancer Nataraja, and his phallus is represented by the stone lingam.  At one point he swallowed the world's sins and has held them in his throat ever since, contributing to his blue color.  Named for the Sanskrit for ""Auspicious One"", this father of Ganesha had a bull called Nandi, and his consort is represented in many forms, including Uma, Shakti, Durga, Kali, and Parvati.  FTP, identify this god of the Hindu trinity that is usually given the epithet ""The Destroyer."""	Shiva	Ganesha	False
1675	"A contributor to the magazine G, this man served as director of the Werkbund-sponsored Weissenhof project in the 1920s and 30s, producing the Weissenhof Apartment Complex in Stuttgart in 1927. Architect of the New National Gallery in Berlin and the Tugendhat House in Brno, he was famous for his dictum ""Less is more"". One-time director of the Bauhaus, he also produced the Farnsworth House in Plano, Illinois and the Lake Shore Drive Apartments in Chicago.  FTP, identify this architect perhaps most famous for collaborating with Philip Johnson on New York's Seagram Building."	Ludwig Mies van der Rohe	Ludwig_Mies_van_der_Rohe	True
1676	A former schoolmate and friend of Emile Zola, this painter of The Murder was greatly influenced by the work of Manet, as seen in A Modern Olympia or The Pasha. He soon focused on brush strokes and the balance of 2-dimensional and 3-dimensional images, developing his technique of breaking down an natural object into its composite shapes, including the cylinder, sphere, and cone, a technique clearly seen in his most famous series of works. FTP name this French forerunner of cubism and painter of Mount Saint Victoire.	Paul Cezanne	Édouard_Manet	False
1677	"Beginning with a description of the priesthood of the ""king of the wood,"" its author argues that the institution of divine kingships derived from the belief that the well being of the natural order depends upon the vitality of the king. Published in 1890, the work traces the mechanisms of thought from the modern, scientific stage back to the religious stage, and finally the magical stage. FTP identify this no longer accepted, though nonetheless revolutionary, work of comparative religion and mythology written by James Frazer."	The Golden Bough	The_Golden_Bough	True
1678	"Planning to emancipate the serfs upon ascension, this ruler was forced instead to secularize clerical land due to debt left by the empress Elisabeth. This monarch successfully conducted war against Turkey and put down Pugachov's rebellion, and before her mysterious 1797 death engaged in an affair with Grigory Potemkin. A friend of the enlightenment FTP identify this German-born Russian empress known as ""the Great""?"	Catherine II or Catherine the Great	Catherine_the_Great	True
1679	"This artist's decorations for the Chapelle des Anges of S. Sulpice included his ""Heliodorus Expelled from the Temple"". Rumored to be the son of Talleyrand, he debuted at the Paris Salon of 1822 with Dante and Virgil in Hell, while a trip to northern Africa provided inspiration for exotic subjects like The Women of Algiers. Creator of ""The Massacre at Chios"" and ""The Death of Sardanopolus"", FTP, who was this French Romantic painter of ""Liberty Leading the People""?"	Eugene Delacroix	Inferno_(Dante)	False
1680	The basis for the Venturl effect, this law can be used to explain the principle of flight. In it , compressibility and viscosity are assumed to be negligible. Equivalent to a statement of the law of conservation of energy, it states that the total mechanical energy of a fluid is the sum of the energy resulting from the fluid pressure and the potential and kinetic energies of the fluid. FTP, what is this law formulated in 1738 by its namesake Swiss scientist?	Bernoulli's Law	Kinetic_energy	False
1681	The centers of these objects consist of mesons and hyperons, its intermediate layers maintain a superfluid state, while its outermost kilometer is solid, reaching temperatures as high as 1 million Kelvin. Perhaps their most important characteristic are their magnetic fields, which cause surface ions to polymerize into long chains of iron atoms. Believed to result when a massive star undergoes a Type II supernove explosion, its mass is restricted to below two solar masses by the Oppenheimer-Volkoff limit. FTP, what are these extremely small, superdense stars named for the presence of a certain type of particle?	neutron stars	Magnetic_field	False
1682	United in 1632 by King Fasilides, its first permanent capital was Gonder. Home to the monolithic churches of King Lalibela, the youngest member of the Zagwe dynasty, a major event in its modern history was its repudiation of the Treaty of Ucciali, which led to its 1896 victory over Italy at Adowa, led by Menelik II. FTP, what is this African country whose most famous 20th century ruler was Haile Seslassie?	Ethiopia	Haile_Selassie	False
1683	Members of this phylum possess gelatinous mesohyl regions through which food-collecting amoebocytes travel.  Most are hermaphrodites, lack nerves and muscles, and were not regarded as animals until the eighteenth century.  Water flows through the osculum in and out of the central cavity, called the spongocoel.  FTP, identify this invertebrate phylum which includes the sponges.	"Porifera  (prompt on early ""sponges"")"	Sponge	True
1684	"While a student of the Ecole Normale in the 1870's this author of ""Pedogogical Evolution of France"" became acquainted with Jean Juares, the future leader of the French Socialist party. Impressed by Wilhelm Wundt, many of his ideas can be found in ""The Rules of Sociological Method"" and ""The Elementary Forms of Religious Life"", while in ""The Division of Labor in Society"", he expressed his belief in the existence of a social disconnectedness, which he termed anomie. FTP identify this French sociologist best-known for his 1897 study ""Suicide."""	Emile Durkheim	France	False
1685	"This author first gained acclaim for early novels line ""The Victim"" and ""Dangling Man"", while recent novels include ""The Dean's December"" and ""The Theft"". Known for drawing attention to the modern moral and social crises experienced by Jewish-Americans, his work ranges from the picaresque ""The Adventures of Augie March"" to philosophical works like ""Mr. Sammler's Planet"" and ""Henderson, the Rain King"". Winner of the 1976 Nobel Prize in Literature, FTP, who is this author of ""Humboldt's Gift""?"	Saul Bellow	Martin_Luther_King_Jr.	False
1686	"This mathematician's ""characteristic"" is defined to be the number of vertices of a graph minus the number of edges plus the number of faces. He introduced the symbols of pi and sigma to mathematics, and his phi function tells the amount of numbers between 1 and n relatively prime to n. He solved the Seven Bridges of Konigsburg problem, but went completely blind by 1766. FTP, who was this Swiss mathematicisn whose namesake identity involves the number e?"	Leonhard Euler	Four_color_theorem	False
1687	Returning from Athens, the protagonist of this work meets Polemarchos on the road and goes back with him to his home. Meeting Polemarchos' father, Cephalus, in the courtyard, the three men and Thrasymachus engage in a conversation during which Thrasymachus attempts to force the central figure to abandon his question-and-answer method. Dicussing the question of justice, the group concludes that justice favors the strong. A work in 10 Books, the tenth rejects poetry while the seventh contains the famous allegory of the cave. FTP identify this Platonic Dialouge in which Socrates describes the idea of the philosopher king and the government of an ideal state.	The Republic	Republic_(Plato)	False
1688	Codeine is simply the addition of a methyl and this functional group to morphine.  They often form azeotropes and when reacted with Lewis acids give oxonium salts. In the presence of oxygen this class of compounds can oxidize into unstable peroxides, resulting in an explosion.  Catalytic hydration of olefins is the primary process used in their creation, though a student might be more familiar with their manufacture via the dehydration of alcohols. FTP, name this class of organic compounds characterized by an oxygen bonded between two carbons.	ethers	Oxygen	False
1689	Lemmas named for him include one that determines the angle that a tangent vector makes with a geodesic, while another states that a polynomial is irreducible over the integers if and only if it is irreducible over the rationals.  His eponymous curvature is the product of the principal curvatures of a surface, while his eponymous function is its own Fourier transform and is important in probability theory.  As a teenager he proved the law of quadratic reciprocity and the fundamental theorem of algebra.  FTP, name this mathematician who also developed the method of least squares and the normal probability distribution.	(Johann Friedrich) Karl Gauss	Curvature	False
1690	"He called sociology the science of social action and in his studies he formulated a construct for historical-comparative study known as the ""ideal type."" He also introduced a six-part bureaucratic model now known as his namesake bureaucracy. The high point of his early scholarly career was the famous Freiburg Address, in which he set forth a devastating indictment of the ruling Junker aristocracy.  However, his best known work was a statement of how Calvinist predestination was linked to society's rapid accumulation of capital.  FTP, name this sociologist who thus explained the theory of his magnum opus, The Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism."	Max Weber	Max_Weber	True
1691	He liked to concentrate on mischievous figures with his symphonic poems as evidenced by The Water Goblin and The Noonday Witch.  At the end of his life, he turned to operas, like Rusalka, but he had first gained fame by getting a contract from Brahms' publisher, Fritz Simrock, who successfully published this man's Moravian Duets.  Among his other successes were the American Quintet, the Dumky Trio, and his Slavonic Dances.  His best known work arose from the Iowa melodies and African-American spirituals he picked up in the U.S. in the early 1890s.  FTP, name this Czech whose fame rests in his Symphony No. 9, From the New World.	Antonin (Leopold) Dvorak [dvor-ZHAK]	Johannes_Brahms	False
1692	"Following the expression of the RAG-1 gene, the V and J genes are randomly joined just before the formation of one of the four major portions of these substances.  Susumo Tonegawa first explained their variability in the 1970s by using recombinant DNA cloning and pointing out differences in their kappa and gamma chains.  All of them consist of two domains known as constant and variable regions, which are present on both their heavy and light chains.  Divided into five classes of ""I-sub-G's"" or immunoglobulins, FTP, name these proteins produced by B cells in response to the presence of an antigen."	"antibody (accept early ""immunoglobulin"")"	Antibody	True
1693	Before coming to meditate under a tree, he ruled Dwarka for 36 years, not knowing that he would die when a hunter, mistaking him for a deer, would shoot him in his instep.  His mission of peace to Hastinapura failed but he did see his aunt Kunti and convinced her to try and bring her son, Karna, to the side of the goodguys.  Duryodhana [Doorr-YO-da-na] chose poorly when he chose this man's army over his counsel.  Accordingly, this brother of Balarama, offered his weapon, the Chakra, and his charioteering services to the opposing side.  FTP, name this avatar of Vishnu, who preaches the Bhagavad Gita to Arjuna.	Krishna	Arjuna	False
1694	The original experiment to confirm it included scenarios dealing with the theft of beer in a store, an epileptic seizure, and a smoke-filled room.  Along with the Caporeal Dilemma it is considered the most prominent example of social loafing.  This theory was first put forth in a famous 1968 study by Darley and Latane, who were intrigued by the seemingly apathetic reaction to the murder of Kitty Genovese.  FTP, name this psychological phenomenon in which individuals, in the presence of a group, are less likely to help a person in trouble.	bystander effect	Bystander_effect	True
1695	"While in London, he met Sir Walter Scott and began his own translation of the folktale ""Peter Klaus the Goatherd.""  His later publications included Astoria, The Adventures of Captain Bonneville, and the travel sketches A Tour on the Prairies.  Upon his return to the U.S. he completed the multi-volume Life of Washington, his first significant writing since some sketches he penned on the Alhambra while he was U.S. minister to Spain.  At this point he had already introduced Launcelot Langstaff, the first of his pseudonymous characters, in the Salmagundi Papers.  FTP, name this man who also created Diedrich Knickerbocker and Geoffrey Crayon and wrote ""Rip Van Winkle"" and ""The Legend of Sleepy Hollow."""	Washington Irving	The_Legend_of_Sleepy_Hollow	False
1696	This country has three major volcanic peaks: Mt. Sahand, Mt. Sabalan, and the largest, Mt. Tuftan.  Much of its volcanic activity takes place in the region that stretches from the city of Kazvin to Lake Urmia.  In it lie the Kavir and Lut Deserts, which extend partially into the eastern provinces of Baluchestan and Khorasan.  The Zagros Mountains lie mostly in its west and southwest opposite its northeastern boundary with Turkmenistan.  FTP, name this country that borders the Caspian Sea to the south and is home to the holy city of Qom and the capital city of Tehran.	Iran	Volcano	False
1697	This artist's fame rests on his later landscapes like Magpie on a Gallows.  However, a small subset of his canvases were successful allegories as in Battle Between Carnival and Lent and Fall of the Rebel Angels. His grimmest works, such as The triumph of Death and Tower of Babel, date from the Spanish persecution of a large Protestant minority in his native town.  Nevertheless, he found humor, particularly in the comical Parable of the Blind.  His supreme achievement is considered to be 1565's The Months of the Year, which includes August, or Corn Harvest and January, or Hunters in the Snow.  FTP, name this Dutchman known for his everyday depictions like The Peasant Wedding.	Pieter Bruegel the Elder	Angel	False
1698	"While in London he wrote for the magazines Fun and Figaro, using the pen name of Dod Grile.  These writings and others appeared in three books, including The Fiend's Delight and Black Beetles in Amber.  Upon his return to the U.S. he wrote tales like ""Moxon's Master,"" which appears in Can Such Things Be?, and ""A Horseman in the Sky,"" which appears in In the Midst of Life.  This all happened before 1913, when he disappeared somewhere in Mexico.  FTP, name this author best-known for the short-story ""An Occurrence at Owl Creek Bridge"" and his Devil's Dictionary."	Ambrose Gwinett Bierce	Ambrose_Bierce	False
1699	"A consequence of this law is decompression sickness in divers.  Its namesake constant can be expressed in at least four sets of units, two of which are always dimensionless and other two of which are usually shown in atmospheres and cubic meter-atmospheres per mole.  Mathematically it is stated as ""p sub a equals x sub a times K sub a,"" where ""K sub a"" is that namesake constant.  Also used to explain the pressurization of soda cans to maintain carbonation, FTP, name this law that states when the temperature is kept constant, the weight of a dissolved gas in a liquid is proportional to the pressure exerted by the gas on the liquid."	Henry's Law	Boyle's_law	False
1700	Despite having a three to one advantage at dawn on October 25, the larger force lost more than 500 of its nobility and saw its cavalry completely massacred by the opponent's billhooks.  Among the dead was the losing commander Charles D'Albret, whose defeat of Henry V was not in the cards that day.  The battle was truly decided because, weighed down by heavy armor, the French were almost immobilized in the muddy field.  FTP, name this engagement of the Hundred Years' War, an English victory in 1415.	Battle of Agincourt	Battle_of_Agincourt	True
1701	"He claims to have quit his government post because there was no prospect for advancement, but it is probably because he was involved with a cover-up dealing with his wife's father.  He worked for eight years as a lawyer before becoming manager of a bank, and spends so much money on his clothes that his wife is forced to work in secret to get new clothes for their children.  This character calls his wife ""my little lark"" and is shocked when she leaves him, probably because of the overt sexist attitude with which he is portrayed.  FTP, name this husband of Nora, one of the central characters in A Doll's House."	Torvald Helmer (accept either name)	A_Doll's_House	False
1702	"His nonfiction works include the long Notes Toward a Supreme Fiction and a collection of essays, The Necessary Angel.  Not typical of his favorite genre is the short play entitled Bowl, Cat, and Broomstick.  Poems like ""Domination of Black"" and ""Le Monocle de Mon Oncle"" appeared in the collection Harmonium, and other famous poems include ""The Comedian as the Letter C,"" ""Sea Surface Full of Clouds,"" ""Peter Quince at the Clavier,"" and ""Sunday Morning.""  FTP, name this insurance firm vice-president who got into a famous fistfight with Ernest Hemingway and wrote ""Thirteen Ways of Looking at a Blackbird"" and ""The Emperor of Ice Cream."""	Wallace Stevens	Thirteen_Ways_of_Looking_at_a_Blackbird	False
1703	"His views on religion can be found in the book Human Immortality and his Essays in Popular Philosophy.  Before finishing his medical studies he studied physiology in Germany and went on an expedition to Brazil with Louis Aggasiz.  His primary career included the publication of his Essays in Radical Empiricism and the famous Lowell Lectures in Boston, though he exercised influence on the literary world by teaching Gertrude Stein and coining the term ""stream of consciousness.""  FTP, name this American philosopher who wrote The Varieties of Religious Experience, Principles of Psychology, and Pragmatism."	William James	Gertrude_Stein	False
1704	He gave his first pianoforte recital in 1846 at the age of 11.  Six years later he befriended Liszt and dedicated his Third Symphony to the Hungarian.  He would go on to be the teacher of Gabriel Faure and write the coronation march for Edward VII in 1902.  Among his piano works are Variations of a Theme of Beethoven and Caprice heroique, while orchestral works include Phaeton and Omphale's Spinning Wheel.  FTP, name this composer of Danse Macabre, Samson and Delilah, and Carnival of the Animals.	Camille Saint-Saens	Franz_Liszt	False
1705	Her most famous novel chronicles the life of Rose, who assists her father Lionel in his Communist activities.  A recent collection of essays, Writing and Being, followed a period of poorly received works that included My Son's Story, and None to Accompany Me.  Her novel The Late Bourgeois World added to the recognition she gained from her story collection, The Soft Voice of the Serpent, but her international breakthrough was the 1974 Booker Prize-winner, The Conservationist.  FTP, name this author of July's People and Burgher's Daughter, the South African winner of the 1991 Nobel in Literature.	Nadine Gordimer	Nadine_Gordimer	True
1706	Some of its highest posts were held under foreigners known as Phanariots.  The local governors, or hospodars, were notoriously corrupt and engaged in widespread bribery, particularly at the Sublime Porte, the capital court.  The royal advisers for a long time came from the highly regarded Koprulu family, but they could not prevent the decline that included the treaties of Jassy and Bucharest and a revolt by one of the provincial governors, Muhammad Ali.  Its greatest victories, at sites like Nikopol came under great leaders like Murad I and Suleiman the Magnificent.  FTP, name this empire founded in the 13th-century in modern day Turkey.	Ottoman Empire	Suleiman_the_Magnificent	False
1707	She set up a printing press with her husband and used it to publish her first collection of short stories, Monday or Tuesday.  Another collection, A Haunted House, was published posthumously, and the feminist work Three Guineas was released just before her death.  Early novels included her first, The Voyage Out, and Night and Day, while later ones included The Years and Between the Acts, her last.  Victoria Sackville-West inspired her novel Orlando but had nothing to do with The Waves and Jacob's Room.  FTP, name this author of Mrs. Dalloway and A Room of One's Own.	Virginia Woolf	Mrs_Dalloway	False
1708	"As translated to English, the epigraph begins: ""If I thought that I was replying to someone who would ever return to the world, this flame would cease to flicker.""  That quote is spoken by Guido da Montefeltro, as heard by Dante and Virgil in the Inferno.  The line, ""I know the voices dying with a dying fall,"" refers to a quote from Twelfth Night, and later references include the title character comparing himself to Lazarus and an ""attendant lord.""  He asks ""Shall I part my hair behind? Do I dare to eat a peach?"" all ""In the room [where] the women come and go / Talking of Michelangelo.""  FTP, name this poem, centering on an indecisive title character, by T.S. Eliot."	"""The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock"""	Inferno_(Dante)	False
1709	The author of this novel used himself as the model for the farmer who writes love poems in chalk to his fiancee.  In its final part, essentially an epilogue, that farmer experiences an epiphany while talking to Thedore and then rushes home to make sure his wife and child are not hurt in a thunderstorm.  It begin's with Dolly's discovery that Stephen has slept with the French governess, but Oblonsky is happy when he learns that his sister will visit.  A happy ending comes for the sub-plot dealing with Kostya's initially unrequited love for Kitty, but the primary story of the woman who leaves her husband for Vronsky, is a tragic one.  FTP, name this novel in which the title character throws herself under a train, a work by Leo Tolstoy.	Anna Karenina	Anna_Karenina	True
1710	The love of this novel's title character was a depiction of the author's wife, Charlotte Cradock.  The title character has fallen into bad favor with his guardian because of his tryst with Molly Seagrim and decides to travel.  Along the way occurs the immoral, at that time, episode where the title character lives with Lady Bellaston, who supports him.  He had grown up being tutored by Thwackum and developed a rivalry with his evil half-brother Bilfil, who, like our hero, loves Sophia Western.  All ends happily when it is discovered that he is Bridget's son and thus his guardian, Squire Allworthy's nephew.  FTP, name this roguish title character of a novel by Henry Fielding.	Tom Jones	The_History_of_Tom_Jones,_a_Foundling	True
1711	In mathematics its use with algorithms results in the Kolmogorov complexity, dealing with a finite sequence of bits.  In one definition it is the product of Boltzmann's constant and the natural logarithm of the multiplicity, and another relationship defines temperature as one over the derivative of this quantity with respect to internal energy.  Its value at absolute zero is zero according to the third law of thermodynamics, and the Clausius inequality states that its change is always greater than or equal to zero.  In addition, the second law of thermodynamics states that it tends to increase.  FTP, identify this thermodynamic state function that can be interpreted as the measure of disorder in a system.	entropy	Second_law_of_thermodynamics	False
1712	"He kept an Occult Diary for a period of 12 years following the time in Paris that is chronicled in his novel Inferno, which like Legends, was inspired by his reading of Swedenborg.  He was an emotional wreck as seen in the diary entry, ""Burst into tears several times, wrote the end of Act 3,"" in reference to his play, To Damascus.  Early works include the autobiography Son of Servant and a breakthrough novel The Red Room, while later expressionistic works, include one about the return of Indra's daughter to earth, entitled A Dream Play, and the more well-known Ghost Sonata.  FTP, name this playwright best known for The Father, Dance of Death, and Miss Julie."	August Strindberg	Miss_Julie	False
1713	Many of his great paintings are now in Russia, as is the case with The Conversation.  Late in his life he was too weak to stand at an easel, so he turned to papercuts, the most famous of which was Beasts of the Sea.  His artistic career began with his decoration of his grandparent's house at Le Cateau, a theme that he copied in designing the sets for Diaghilev's ballet The Nightingale.  His notable paintings include a portrait of his wife entitled Green Stripe, the beautifully thematic The Red Room, and perhaps the most famous, his Joy of Life.  FTP, name this French painter known as the founder and leader of the Fauves.	Henri Matisse	Ode_to_a_Nightingale	False
1714	One of his last works was the design of the Samuel Morse and Ezra Stiles Colleges at Yale.  This contrasted with his early period in furniture that was noted for its use of molded plastic and plywood.  His first major commission was the General Motors Technical Center in Warren, Michigan and other buildings he designed include the Kresge Auditorium at MIT, the CBS building in New York, Ingalls Hockey Rink at Yale, and Dulles International Airport.  FTP, name this architect, most famous for the TWA terminal at JFK Airport and the Gateway Arch.	Eero Saarinen (prompt on just last name)	Eero_Saarinen	True
1715	A malfunction in CFTR's uptake of sugar groups at this site is a primary mutation associated with cystic fibrosis.  It recognizes and designates destination based on the presence of a hydrophobic signal sequence or signal recognition particle.  Enclosing a sac known as the lumen, this structure was once known as the gastroplasm.  It consists of two phospholipid bilayers and the presence of ribosomes differentiates its two types.  FTP, name this transport network within the cytoplasm, divided into smooth and rough varieties.	ER or endoplasmic reticulum	Cystic_fibrosis	False
1716	"He was a noted womanizer and used to brag in slang, ""Je peint avec mon bitre,"" or ""I paint with my phallus."" In fact, his later career proved successful after he found a market for seductive portraits like those of Jeanne Samary and Mademoiselle Charpentier.  This native of Limoges will always be noted for his warm, luminous nudes and other portraits like Child With Watering Can.  During the last 20 years of his life, he was crippled by arthritis and had to paint with a brush strapped to his arm.  This explains the lack of notable canvases following his 1887 Bathers series.  FTP, name this French painter of Au Moulin de la Galette and Luncheon of the Boating Party."	Pierre-Auguste Renoir	Luncheon_of_the_Boating_Party	False
1717	It was written during a tour of prisons the author made in Scandinavia, Britain, and the U.S.  The author lets us know that the only real events were the bus boycott and the erection of Shanty Town; and the only real characters were Professor Hoernle and Ernest Oppenheimer.  It opens with the protagonist responding to a letter about his sister Gertrude and a decision to search for his son Absalom.  He learns that Absalom was involved in the murder of Arthur Jarvis, whose father James is befriended by Reverend Stephen Kumalo, the protagonist.  FTP, name this masterful portrayal of post-World War II South Africa, the best-known novel of Alan Paton.	Cry, the Beloved Country	Cry,_the_Beloved_Country	True
1718	In some legends he was the father of the ostrich goddess Qeb-hevet. Other legends state that he is the son of Bastet or the cow goddess, Hesat, or that his mother, Nephthys tricked his father into mating with her. Ancient peoples also labeled him Imy-ut or Yinepu, names that reflected his duties.  One of those duties was to examine the tongue of the Great Balance, which he would then use to weigh the hearts of all men that entered his realm.  FTP, name this funereal god of the Egyptians depicted with the head of a jackal.	Anubis	Set_(deity)	False
1719	Ludovic Halevy wrote most of the libretto for this four-act opera, though he had to share the billing with Meilhac [MY-lak].  The composer was criticized for borrowing from popular melodies, particularly the one he expropriated from Sebastian Radier for the famous Habanera.  Le Remendado is a tenor and Le Dancaire is a baritone, but of course most celebrated is the titular soprano, made famous by Celestine Galli-Marie.  The plot concerns the love for the heroine by both Escamillo and Don Jose, who kills her.  Based on a work by Prosper Merimee, FTP, name this most famous opera of George Bizet.	Carmen	Carmen	True
1720	X-rays have revealed that before the man on the left side of the painting existed, there was a naked woman in his place.  Set off against the aquamarine sky in the background is a wooden bridge supported by four columns.  More noticeable are the two broken white columns in the foreground.  On the bottom left is the aforementioned man, probably a soldier, who is carrying a long wooden stick in his right hand and looking across the river at the other figure in this painting, a partially naked woman in white sheets breast-feeding a child.  Painted in the first decade of the 16th-century, FTP, name this work by Giorgione that shares its name with a Shakespearean play.	The Tempest	Giorgione	False
1721	The Sutlej River flows in the eastern part of this country and merges into a larger river not far from the base of the Sulaiman Range.  The oases of Kohat and Bannu lie in the north as does the Vale of Peshawar, which is diametrically opposite the large southwestern state of Baluchistan.  The Rann of Kutch lies below its southern border and along its southeastern border is the Thar Desert.  FTP, name this country whose major cities include Lahore, Islamabad, and Karachi; a nation that still claims Jammu and Kashmir over India.	Pakistan	India	False
1722	"In this religion's belief, following death, each person must cross a bridge known as the Chinvato Peretav.  Among its six major deities are Haurvatat, the god of salvation, and Vohu Manah, the god of good thought.  Its sacred book contains three main parts, including the ""Law Against the Demons"" which is concerned with ritual purification.  Its followers are asha, or People of Righteousness, while nonbelievers are druj, or People of the Lie; and at present it has less than 10,000 practitioners exempting the Parsis of India.  According to accepted beliefs, its Prophet received his first revelation at the age of 30, in 588 B.C.   FTP, identify this religion promoted by the Avesta and named for the Persian who founded it."	Zoroastrianism	Zoroastrianism	True
1723	"For systems that execute it, a particle's displacement is defined as ""amplitude times the cosine of angular frequency multiplied by time.""  The French mathematician Jean-Baptiste-Joseph Fourier's discovery of its descriptive use is now used to explain such things as the movement of electrons in a wire carrying AC current.  It occurs in the case in which a particle or mass oscillates about an equilibrium point subject to a linear force.  Best exhibited by a basic pendulum, FTP, name this type of periodic motion often abbreviated as SHM."	simple harmonic motion	Pendulum	False
1724	"His early canvases Women in the Garden and La Promenade set the stage for his career.  He said of his second mentor, Jongkind, ""I owed him the definite education of my eye,"" but it was his first teacher, Eugene Boudin, who converted him to painting the outdoors.  His The Picnic mocked Manet's Luncheon on the Grass, but this was before his mature work, which was executed at the home he built at Giverny.  FTP, name this artist famed for his paintings of Rouen Cathedral, his groups of Haystacks, and his series of Water Lilies."	Claude Monet	Édouard_Manet	False
1725	"His series in The Dial entitled ""The Modern Point of View and the New Order"" was later published in book form as The Vested Interest.  He harshly criticized business involvement in universities in The Higher Education in America and claimed that modern wars were caused by competing national business interests in An Inquiry into the Nature of Peace.  These themes were also the focus of his The Instinct of Workmanship and the State of the Industrial Arts.  FTP, name this economist, who coined the term ""conspicuous consumption"" in his seminal The Theory of the Leisure Class."	Thorstein Bunde Veblen	The_Theory_of_the_Leisure_Class	False
1726	"A translation of this series of poems is included in a recent book by William Gass about ""reading"" their author.  In the ninth, the author asks why we have to be human rather than a laurel, and concludes that to have been here this once, completely, even if only once, seems beyond undoing.  The first line of the series, ""Who, if I cried out, would hear me among the angels' hierarchies?"" supposedly came to the author in a sudden revelation as he was staying in an Italian castle owned by his patron, Princess Marie von Thurn und Taxis-Hohenlohe.  FTP, identify this series of ten poems by Rainer Maria Rilke, named for the place where he wrote them."	the Duino Elegies	Rainer_Maria_Rilke	False
1727	"His early works include short plays like The Jubilee and The Tragedian in Spite of Himself, as well as stories collected in Motley Tales and Tales of Melpomene.  His stories include the story of the shopkeeper Tsybukin and his daughter-in-law Aksinya, ""In the Ravine""; an 1889 work about Professor Nikolai Stepanovich, ""A Dreary Story""; and a story written on his estate at Yalta, ""The Lady with the Lapdog.""  FTP, identify this Russian author of The Seagull and The Cherry Orchard."	Anton Chekhov	The_Seagull	False
1728	Only an elite of initiates, known as uggal, can participate in all of their religious services.  In times of persecution, its practitioners are granted the right of taqiya, or ability to openly lie about their true faith.  This rule and many others come from the secret hikmah, their religious doctrine.  As a religion it began spreading in Cairo in the early 11th-century AD and moved to its current power base under the 19th-century Shihab family.  FTP, name this Middle Eastern religious sect that exists primarily in Lebanon.	Druze or Duruz or Darazi	Lebanon	False
1729	"In his first year of rule, he avoided war with one of his neighbors with the Peace of Knared.  Shortly thereafter he sent an abortive expedition to seize the fortification of Dunamunde in an attempt to overthrow his initial rival for the throne, Sigismund III.  After defeating his cousin, he would form the Corpus Evangelicorum, which he led at the Alte Veste and to victory at Breitenfeld.  FTP, name this king who became known as the ""Lion of the North,"" until he was capped at Lutzen while leading his Swedish forces in the Thirty Years' War."	Gustavus Adolphus or Gustav II Adolph	Great_Northern_War	False
1730	"The story begins on a spring afternoon in Munich, when the protagonist decides to take a rather long walk by himself.  That protagonist is the author of ""A Wretched Man,"" Maia, and a prose epic about the life of Frederick the Great, who dies at the Hotel des Bains after watching Yashu wrestle on the beach with another boy.  FTP, identify this story about Tadzio and the man who becomes obsessed with him, Gustav von Aschenbach, a novella by Thomas Mann."	Death In Venice	Death_in_Venice	True
1731	"One of this author's late poems asks ""Why do sinners' ways prosper? and why must disappointment all I endeavour end?""  He concludes that ""This Jack, joke, poor potsherd, patch, matchwood, immortal diamond, Is immortal diamond"" in ""That Nature is a Heraclitean Fire and of the comfort of the Resurrection,"" and other poems by him include ""Felix Randal,"" ""Carrion Comfort,"" and ""Spring and Fall.""  FTP, identify this British poet of ""God's Grandeur,"" ""Pied Beauty,"" and ""The Windhover."""	Gerard Manley Hopkins	Diamond	False
1732	"Along with the scientific idea of ""work,"" the name for this quantity was introduced with its present meaning by Coriolis in an 1829 book. If the reference frame is fixed with respect to the center of mass of the colliding bodies in an inelastic collision, this quantity appears to vanish totally.  In momentum space, its ""operator"" in quantum mechanics is equal to momentum squared divided by mass, and rotation around an axis, vibration, or motion along a path all create this form of energy.  FTP, name this quantity that is represented non-relativistically as _mv2."	kinetic energy	Momentum	False
1733	"The final part discusses the danger of a ""Confederacy of Deceivers"" who ""disprepare citizens for the Kingdom of God to come.""  This follows Book Three's condemnation of ""atheists"" and a frequent return to the notion of a Prime Mover who intervenes in the world.  It begins by pointing to an ""artificial person,"" and a body politic that mimics the human body and is the actual commonwealth.  The establishment of this commonwealth through social contract and government by a sovereign is what the author desires.  FTP, name this 1651 work by Thomas Hobbes."	Leviathan	Leviathan_(Hobbes_book)	True
1734	His early works include the essays collected in Nuptials and The Wrong Side and the Right Side, while his plays include State of Siege, Cross Purpose, and The Just Assassins.  The author of dramatic adaptations of The Possessed and Requiem for a Nun, his later works include a 1956 novel set in a bar in Amsterdam and a collection of stories entitled Exile and the Kingdom.  FTP, identify this French author of The Rebel, The Fall, and The Plague.	Albert Camus	The_Plague	False
1735	Different versions of this phenomenon have been experimentally tested by Ives and Stilwell on hydrogen atoms in 1938.  Cherenkov radiation and verification of the absence of a medium of transmission for light are important consequences of its relativistic formulation.  Johannes Stark predicted that high velocity rays of positive ions will demonstrate it, while Buys-Ballot [BOYS-ba-LOH] first verified it in 1845.   First described by an Austrian scientist in 1842, FTP, name this effect that explains why a moving observer perceives a wavelength different from the source wavelength.	Doppler effect	Cherenkov_radiation	False
1736	"John Ruskin denounced him for ""feeding upon horror and ugliness and filthiness of sin.""  His circular Medusa can be found in the Ufizzi as can his Bacchus.  Neither was as controversial as the bare feet of Mary shown in his Death of the Virgin.  These were all painted before he fled to Naples after stabbing a man in the groin over a tennis match.  Sadly, he had finished all his great paintings, like Judith Beheading Holofernes and Supper at Emmaus, by then.  FTP, name this master of tenebrism, who painted The Conversion of St. Paul and The Calling of St. Matthew and was born Michelangelo da Merisi."	Caravaggio (accept Michelangelo da Merisi before it is mentioned)	Michelangelo	True
1737	"We first meet Fiers, the aging footman, in Act I and learn that he is to be replaced by Yasha.  Other minor characters include Charlotta, a governess, and Gaev, the brother of the central female.  Near the end of the play, one character rejoices in his new possession exclaiming, ""If my father and grandfather could see me now - me, their ignorant Yermolay, almost illiterate.""  Lubov Andreyevna, aka Madame Ranevsky, faints when she is forced to part with the dearest reminder of her dead son to Lopakhin, a former family friend and newly wealthy man.  FTP, name this Anton Chekhov drama revolving around the titular piece of land."	The Cherry Orchard or Vishnovy sad	The_Cherry_Orchard	True
1738	His first major military experience came while serving on the Danube with the Second Legion Adjutrix.  Following his military service he developed a rivalry with his brother-in-law, Julius Servianus, that would last throughout his life.  The patronage of his predecessor's advisor, Lucius Sura; his predecessor's wife, Plotina; and a marriage to his predecessor's grand-niece, Vibia Sabina helped lead to this man being named heir.  He built a massive mausoleum, Castel Sant'Angelo, after the death of his lover, Antinous, and soon after named Antoninus Pius his successor.  FTP, name this emperor who succeeded Trajan in AD 117 and built a barrier in Britain.	Publius Aelius Hadrianus	Trajan	False
1739	"He dropped a promising musical career to write such plays as Butterfly's Evil Spell.  This followed early poetry collections like Impressions and Landscapes and First Songs.  His first successes included The Shoemaker's Prodigious Wife and Mariana Pineda.  The lines ""Green how I want you green. / Green wind. Green branches,"" appear in his poem ""Romance Sonambulo,"" but even more famous is the refrain, ""At five in the afternoon,"" from his Lament for the Death of a Bullfighter.  Notable poetry collections include the posthumous Poet in New York and his first success, Gypsy Ballads.  FTP, name this Andalusian native best-known for the trilogy consisting of Yerma, Blood Wedding, and The House of Bernarda Alba."	Federico Garcia Lorca	Green	False
1740	In top center and top right, there is a multicolored town, including a building surmounted by a cross.  In total there are four human figures, with two of them being an upside down woman and a man holding a scythe next to each other near the top.  On the left is a woman milking a goat, horse, or a cow, but the two largest images are the white animal head on the left and the green human face on the right, both facing each other.  Many of these pictures are superimposed over each other in this 1911 painting.  FTP, name this famous painting by Marc Chagall.	I and the Village	Marc_Chagall	False
1741	According to Saxo Grammaticus, he was a warlike god who was killed in a battle over a woman.  In his better-known form he made his final voyage upon Ringhorn when the demoness Hyrrokin launched him into the sea.  This happened following Hermoder's unsuccessful attempt to bring him back to Asgard due to the fact that Thokk had refused to weep for him.  Living happily in Breidablik with his son Forseti and wife Nanna, this son of Odin and Frigg would fall victim to one of Loki's plots.  FTP, name this Norse god of light, who was killed by a dart of mistletoe thrown by his brother, Hoder.	Balder	Frigg	False
1742	He has written about vegetarianism in Lives of the Animals, his childhood in Boyhood, and censorship in Giving Offense.  In his more unequivocally fictional work, he has often drawn on other authors, such as Daniel Defoe in Foe, an adaptation of the Robinson Crusoe story, and Dostoyevsky in Master of Petersburg.  His first success came with a novel about a government magistrate entitled Waiting for Barbarians, and he has followed that up with several acclaimed novels, including two award winners.  FTP, name this South African author who won the Booker Prize for The Life and Times of Michael K. and his most recent novel, Disgrace.	J. M. Coetzee (John Michael)	Robinson_Crusoe	False
1743	"He preferred writing for string orchestra, as exemplified by his elegiac melodies entitled ""Heart Wounds"" and ""The Last Spring.""  He studied at the Leipzig conservatory and soon after wrote his first piano concerto, which has been frequently criticized as an imitation of Schuman, though its piano part owes more to Liszt, the first musician of international stature to recognize his work.  Major works of his include his series of Slatter dances, the Landsighting piece, the Haugtussa cycle, and the Holberg suite.  FTP, name this composer, most famous for his Peer Gynt suite, which was inspired by a fellow Norwegian."	Edvard Hagerup Grieg	Peer_Gynt	False
1744	An important method of maintaining population inversion in this device is called Q-switching, which involves the modification of the resonance characteristics of its cavity.  The most common type of the dye variety is the Rhodamine 6G in methanol, while the gaseous type consists of krypton-ion and argon-ion varieties.  In 1960, Theodore Maiman invented the solid-state type, which utilized the process of pump flashing a ruby in order to produce a uniform red beam of radiation.  FTP, identify this device that is created via light amplification through stimulated emission of radiation.	laser	Laser	True
1745	When the narrator goes into the city for the first time in this novel, he attends a party with Catherine and the McKees.  Later, he recalls such ridiculous people as the Cheadles, the O.R.P. Schraders, and the Stonewall Jackson Abrams, all of whom he met that summer.  The apathy of people is revealed when the pianist Klipspringer calls for a missing pair of shoes, ignoring the funeral at its end.   Throughout the novel the eyes of Dr. T. J. Eckleburg stare out over the ash heaps at everyone.  Myrtle's death is attributed to the title character, who is killed by Myrtle's husband George.  FTP, name this novel narrated by Nick Carraway, the most famous work of F. Scott Fitzgerald.	The Great Gatsby	The_Great_Gatsby	True
1746	"While in Paris he studied with German naturalist Alexander von Humboldt, and while in Rome, on the heights of the Monte Sacro, he made the pledge that would become his life's work.  During his first exile, he penned the famous ""Letter from Jamaica,"" in which he outlined his grand scheme. This followed his call to throw off the yoke of Ferdinand VII in his Cartagena Manifesto.  Sadly, he died in obscurity following the crushing news that his compatriot Antonio Jose de Sucre had been assassinated.  FTP, name this man known as the ""Liberator"" in his native Venezuela."	Simon de Bolivar	Venezuela	False
1747	This battle ended with the loser asking for death and having his wish granted by being unhorsed and killed in a bog.  Early on August 22nd, the eventual losing army gained a superior position on Ambien Hill, but the tide turned when John Howard was killed in the initial skirmish.  One army had landed at Milford Haven and marched toward the other, which was near Leicester [lester].  The key was the betrayal of Sir William Stanley, whose forces attacked the Yorkist flank, causing them to melt away.  FTP, identify this 1485 victory for Henry Tudor, which brought the Wars of the Roses to an end.	Battle of Bosworth Field	Battle_of_Bosworth_Field	True
1748	"This deity owns Hildesvini, the ""battle boar,"" which is actually the human Ottar in disguise.  Other possessions include the eternally loyal chamberbaid Fulla; falcon skin that allows one to take the form of a bird; and the palace of Folkvang, where love songs are always played in the hall of Sessrumir.  Depicted as riding into battle in a chariot drawn by two cats, she is always found wearing the necklace of the Brisings, though it was once stolen by Loki.  FTP, name this daughter of Niord, the foremost goddess of the Vanir and sister of Frey."	"Freya (do not accept ""Frigg"" or ""Frigga"")"	Loki	False
1749	As court advisor to the Elector of Mainz, he drafted the failed Egyptian Plan, a proposal to divert the armies of Louis XIV away from Holland and Germany.  A chance meeting with Huygens led to his immersion in mathematics, through which he co-discovered the determinant and named the function.  However, he may be better known for founding a philosophical system based on the principles of non-contradiction and sufficient reason, combining the inorganic, the organic, and the divine into one structure.  FTP, name this philosopher a proponent of monadology and co-discoverer of calculus.	Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz	Louis_XIV	False
1750	In one phase of matter it can be thought of as work required to remove an area of an outer layer or as force acting on that area to minimize its extent.  In the former case, it has the unit of energy per area, and in the latter case the equivalent unit of force per length.  Arising primarily from London and dispersion forces, its high value in some liquids, such as water, is because of hydrogen bonding.  FTP, name this property of liquids, used to explain why they form droplets.	surface tension	Hydrogen_bond	False
1751	At one time the Duke of Alva attempted to seize this painting by force, leading to a break with its owner, William of Orange.  Alva's son gave it to King Philip II of Spain, the longtime patron of its artist.  Its alternate name, The Strawberry Plant, comes from the center portion, which is unseen when it is closed and the third day of creation is found the outside.  On the left is a depiction of God marrying Adam and Eve in Eden, and on the right are a series of distorted musical instruments shown in some gloomy hell.  However, it is the center panel that names this 1510 tryptich.  FTP, name this most famous painting by Hieronymus Bosch.	The Garden of Earthly Delights	The_Garden_of_Earthly_Delights	True
1752	"He imagines himself and his lover as parallel lines that can never meet unless the world ""be cramped into a planisphere"" in his ""The Definition of Love.""  He invites Clora to come view his soul in ""The Gallery,"" invites the reader to ""See with what simplicity the nymph begins her golden days"" in ""The Picture of Little T.C. in a Prospect of Flowers,"" and announces the arrival of Juliana to some insects in ""The Mower to the Glowworms.""  FTP, name this English poet, who also celebrated Cromwell's return from Ireland in ""An Horation Ode"" and wished that he had world enough and time in ""To His Coy Mistress."""	Andrew Marvell	Oliver_Cromwell	False
1753	The mechanism for this reaction is concerted and stereospecific, as two pi bonds are converted into two sigma bonds simultaneously.  Used to produce morphine, cortisone, and other steroids, the simplest reaction of this type is the reaction of 1,3-butadiene and ethylene to from cyclohexene.  For 10 points - identify this method for synthesizing cyclic organic compounds, named for its German co-discoverers.	Diels-Alder reaction (Accept: diene synthesis)	Alkene	False
1754	Some of the parenchyma cells which help form this tissue are grouped together to form rays that radiate horizontally. Vessel elements do not occur in most conifers and are more highly specialized for transport, while the elongate tracheids have thick, hard, secondary cell walls which become interrupted with pits after their lengthwise growth has ceased. FTP, identify this complex of conducting and supporting tissue that conducts water and dissolved mineral nutrients in vascular plants.	xylem	Xylem	True
1755	The defense of one of the countries involved lasted for five years until the final defeat at Cerro Cora.  A secret alliance made with Velancio Flores, an enemy o the Blanco regime, spelled the end for the eventual losing side. Though declaration of war against Bartolome Mitre had already sealed the fate of Francisco Solano Lopez and his country.  Costing Paraguay almost a third of its male population, FTP, identify this conflict fought between 1865 and 1870 and named for the number of nations allied against Paraguay.	War of the Triple Alliance	Paraguay	False
1756	About 4000 tons of this type of mineral are used annually in the ceramics industry, and the gem variety moonstone is used in jewelry. Its pure variety is colorless and transparent, but impurities like barium can make it opaque. Orthoclase, albite, anorthite, and celsian are the plagioclase types, which have a low potassium content, while alkali varieties like microcline and orthoclase have little sodium or calcium. FTP, identify this group of minerals that ranks number 6 on the Mohs' scale and is the most abundant group in the Earth's crust.	feldspar or felspar	Feldspar	True
1757	"His many compositions for piano include the Shepherd's Boy and March of the Dwarfs.  More inclined to write short works such as the Two Elegiac Melodies, he allowed few performances of his only symphony. Among his more successful works are the overture In Autumn, the choral work Mountain Thrall, and his Lyric Pieces for piano.  However, he only became a national icon following his incidental music to a certain play.  FTP name this composer who created arrangements of ""Solvejg's Song"" and ""In the Hall of the Mountain King"" from his music for Peer Gynt."	Edvard Hagerup Grieg	Peer_Gynt	False
1758	"The apparatus which he used was marked as a ""type ZLB"" product of the Dyson Instrument Company of Waltham, Massachusetts.  He arranged thirty switches in seven labeled groups of four and two marked XXX.  Claiming that his goal was to test the effect of punishment on associative learning, he had ""teachers"" operate the machine.  Nearly all ""teacher"" subjects continued to increase voltage even after the actor pretending to be the ""learner"" cried out in pain. FTP, name this man who designed the obedience experiment thus described."	Stanley Milgram	Milgram_experiment	False
1759	His brother Roderick is also a playwright, and his own dramatic works include Ti-Jean and his Brothers and Pantomime.  He is better known as a poet, though, and his recent books of verse include The Bounty and Tiepolo's Hound.  FTP, name this author of In a Green Night and Omeros, a native of St. Lucia who won the 1992 Nobel Prize for Literature.	Derek Walcott	Lucia_di_Lammermoor	False
1760	He acceded to the throne in 179 BC, clearing his way by betraying his brother Demetrius.  He succeeded his father, Philip V, who for his last years had generally supported the Romans.  As king of Macedon, though, this man instituted an anti-Roman policy which frightened King Eumenes II of Pergamum, culminating in the Third Macedonian war of 171 to 168 BC, and his own defeat at the Battle of Pydna.  FTP, name this last king of Macedon, who shares his name with the mythological hero who killed Medusa.	Perseus	Medusa	False
1761	Since these organelles differ in size and chemical properties between prokaryotes and eukaryotes, anitbiotics such as tetracycline, streptomycin, and Zithromax can be used to target them and kill prokaryotic cells without hurting eukaryotic cells.  Each is composed of two subunits with characteristic shape, and contains a total of four RNA molecules and about 70 different proteins.  Manufactured in the nucleus and then released into the cytoplasm in order to function, name these organelles that are directly involved in protein synthesis and which, FTP, are found floating in the cytoplasm or attached to the endoplasmic reticulum.	ribosomes	Endoplasmic_reticulum	False
1762	His papers were published posthumously as The Farther Reaches of Human Nature.  Instead of studying troubled clinical cases, he studied normal individuals, including Thomas Jefferson, Abraham Lincoln, and Eleanor Roosevelt, and based his theories on common traits he encountered in their histories.  In Toward a Psychology of Being and Motivation and Personality, he put forth the idea that each person has a hierarchy of needs which must be satisfied.  FTP, identify this proponent of the theory of self-acutalization.	Abraham Harold Maslow	Theodore_Roosevelt	False
1763	His critical works include The Perpetual Orgy, a study of Madame Bovary, and Garc? Marquez: Story of a God-Killer. His story The Cubs depicts a teenager who gets castrated by accident, while a number of his early novels deal with the military, including Captain Pantoja (pan-TOE-ha) and the Special Service, Conversation in the Cathedral, and The Time of the Hero. FTP, name this Peruvian writer, best known for In Praise of the Stepmother, The War of the End of the World, and Aunt Julia and the Scriptwriter.	Jorge Mario Pedro Vargas Llosa (YO-suh)	Aunt_Julia_and_the_Scriptwriter	False
1764	While in politics, he sold prisoners to the British for use in the American Revolution. He served under Duke Charles Augustus, despite Napoleon trying to lure him to France. While in Weimar he fell in love with Charlotte von Stein but in 1786 made a long visit to Italy, where he wrote the Roman Elegies. He then returned to Germany and became friends with Schiller. FTP, name this author of Elective Affinities, The Sorrows of Young Werther (VUR-ter) and Faust.	Johann Wolfgang von Goethe (GUR-tuh)	The_Sorrows_of_Young_Werther	False
1765	The novel begins in 1801, after the narrator arrives at Thrushcross Grange. The housekeeper Ellen Dean tells the story, and the novel ends with Lockwood's visit to three headstones after he learns of the marriage of the heirs of Linton and Earnshaw. FTP, identify this 1847 novel, set in a remote part of Yorkshire, which was originally published under the pseudonym of Ellis Bell and features the love of Catherine and Heathcliff.	Wuthering Heights	Wuthering_Heights	True
1766	"He took Conrad, the young king of Arles, under his protection, and eventually married Conrad's sister Adelheid to get a claim to the Italian throne. After suppressing a revolt led by his son Liudolf, he defeated the Magyars at Lechfeld, went to pick up the Italian crown after Pope John XII asked him for protection, and married his son to Theophano, the daughter of the Greek emperor. FTP, name this ruler, whose brother Bruno was Archbishop of Cologne and the leader of a German cultural revival, who was the eldest son of Henry the Fowler, ruled as Saxon emperor from 936 to 973, and was nicknamed ""the great."""	Otto I (accept Otto the Great before the end of the question)	Joseph_Conrad	False
1767	American physicist Ralph Kronig first conceived of this property, which is based on the exclusion principle, but was discouraged from publishing it by Pauli. Instead that honor went to Dutch physicists George Uhlenbeck and Samuel Goudsmit in 1925, who suggested that this would satisfy the theoretical need for a fourth quantum number. First observed three years earlier in the Stern-Gerlach experiment, this property was later used to explain both the fine and hyperfine structure in spectral lines. FTP, name this property, the intrinsic angular momentum of a subatomic particle.	spin	Stern–Gerlach_experiment	False
1768	The armies met near Glebe Farm and Ambien Hill Farm, about a mile to the west of Sutton Cheney. After Lord Stanley and his uncle were convinced to desert by the Duke of Richmond, the battle was effectively over, and it ended with the deaths of Lord Ferrers, the Duke of Norfolk, and the king. FTP, identify this battle, fought in Yorkshire on August 22, 1485, which ended the Wars of the Roses as the future king Henry VII defeated Richard III.	the battle of Bosworth Field	Battle_of_Bosworth_Field	True
1769	His first play, The Butterfly's Evil Spell, closed after one night in 1920. His other early works include First Songs and Gypsy Ballads, and he wrote Poet in New York after moving there following an emotional collapse. FTP, name this poet born near Granada, best known for such plays as Yerma, Blood Wedding and The House of Bernarda Alba.	Federico Garc? {Lorca}	Madama_Butterfly	False
1770	In electrodynamics, this quantity is given by the cross product of a magnetic dipole with the external magnetic field. In classical mechanics, it can be expressed as the cross product of an object's angular velocity of precession and angular momentum but is more commonly given as the lever arm crossed with an applied force. FTP, identify this quantity, the time derivative of angular momentum and the twisting equivalent of force.	torque	Angular_momentum	False
1771	The Shebele and Jubba Rivers drain this nation's southeastern plains. In the north central highlands lie Lake Tana, and Tisisat Falls. Many of Africa's highest mountains line in this nation, the tallest being Mt. Talo. FTP name this nation which some claim is the resting place of the Ark of the Covenant, a nation that endured great famine in the 80's and has recently lost the region of Eritrea, with its capital and largest city being Addis Abeba.	Ethiopia	Lake_Superior	False
1772	His first book was 1925's Babbling April, a collection of verse, and his first novel, The Man Within, appeared four years later. His late novels include Monsignor Quixote and The Human Factor, but he is better remembered for earlier works like Brighton Rock, The Ministry of Fear, and The End of the Affair. FTP, name this British novelist, whose other novels include The Third Man, The Heart of the Matter, and Our Man in Havana.	Graham Greene	Don_Quixote	False
1773	"His essay, ""The Painter of Modern Life,"" advocated the use of contemporary subject matter for painters, and was an influence on Manet. He also published studies of Balzac and Flaubert, as well as an autobiographical novel, La Fanfarlo. FTP, identify this author, who translated Poe into French but is best known for a collection which includes such poems as ""Correspondences,"" ""Invitation to the Voyage,"" and ""Spleen,"" 1857's The Flowers of Evil."	Charles Baudelaire	Gustave_Flaubert	False
1774	Though three figures appear in the work, it has no discernible subject, and was an influence on the landscapes of Claude Lorraine and Rembrandt. In the background lies a bridge over a small stream and a number of buildings, while in the foreground at left stands a soldier holding a tall staff, staring at a mostly nude mother nursing a baby to the right. FTP, name the 1505 painting by Giorgione, which derives its name from the stormy skies at the top.	The Tempest	Giorgione	False
1775	"The 1st, 3rd, 5th, 8th, and 11th sections of this work are ""promenades"" which link its other sections. ""Cum mortuis in lingua mortua"" is the second part of its ""Catacombs"" section, which, along with sections entitled ""Ballet of the Unhatched Chicks"", ""The Gnome"", ""The Market Place at Limoges"", and ""The Bohatyr Gate of Kiev"", serve as musical ""reproductions"" of ten pieces of art by Victor Hartmann. FTP, name this composition by Modest Mussorgsky."	Pictures at an Exhibition (or Kartinki s vistavki)	Pictures_at_an_Exhibition	True
1776	A symbolic presentation of this author's life can be seen in his last play, The Great Highway, which was preceded by historical dramas like Erik XIV and Gustavus Vasa, the latter of which was a continuation of his first successful play, Master Olaf. Famous for works like A Dream Play and his Chamber Plays, which includes The Ghost Sonata, this author is probably best known for his naturalistic dramas, which were based in part upon his unsuccessful marriages. FTP, name this Swedish author of The Creditors, The Father, and Miss Julie.	August Strindberg	Miss_Julie	False
1777	This leader, whose mausoleum is called Gur-e Amir, began his military career by joining his brother-in-law Amir Husayn to defeat Ilyas Khoja and conquer Transoxania. During the next three decades, he used his mounted archers to subdue Persia, Georgia, the Tatar Empire, Damascus, and Syria, and in 1402 he captured Bayezid I at the Battle of Ankara and won Anatolia, thus establishing a vast Asian empire with capital at Samarkand. FTP, name this great-great-grandson of Genghis Khan, the subject of Marlowe's first play, famous for the injuries he sustained in battle.	{Timur Lenk} or {Timur the Lame} or {Tamerlain} or {Tamburlaine}	Genghis_Khan	False
1778	His first philosophical publication was 1936's The Transcendence of the Ego, in which he argued that Husserl had failed in his attempt to bracket off the world from the sphere of pure consciousness. His later works in phenomenological psychology include the Sketch for a Theory of the Emotions and The Psychology of Imagination, after which he moved on to phenomenological ontology, as is reflected in the subtitle of his 1943 work Being and Nothingness. FTP, name this philosopher, who on the grounds that commitment can be undermined by homage declined the 1964 Nobel Prize in Literature.	Jean-Paul Sartre	Edmund_Husserl	False
1779	He was trained in his early years by his father, but when it became clear that he was a prodigy of Mozartean dimensions, a group of noblemen paid for his family to go to Vienna, where he studied piano with the famed technician Czerny and composition with Antonio Salieri. Later in life, he claimed that he played for Beethoven, who rewarded him with a kiss, but this is probably untrue as Beethoven was stone-deaf by that time. At 13, his one-act opera Don Sanche was performed to some acclaim, but he withdrew the score and never tried the stage again. Thus was the early life, FTP, of what Hungarian composer and virtuoso pianist, known for his Faust symphony and for the symphonic poem Les Preludes.	Franz Liszt	Ludwig_van_Beethoven	False
1780	"Hermine insists that the main character will kill her, and he eventually does. The book ends with the laughter of Mozart, one of the ""Immortals"" whom the hero admires. Earlier he finds an advertisement ""For Madmen Only!' and a treatise that describes his own alienation and dual nature as both man and beast. FTP, name this 1927 novel that features Henry Haller, a work by Hermann Hesse whose name was adopted by a rock band in the 1960s."	Steppenwolf or Der Steppenwolf	Steppenwolf_(novel)	False
1781	In classical mechanics, the conservation of this quantity can be derived from the invariance of the Lagrangian under spatial transformations. More directly, the canonically conjugate form of this quantity can be calculated by taking the partial derivative of the Lagrangian with respect to velocity. Quantum mechanically, this quantity is equal to the ratio of the Planck constant and an object's equivalent wavelength. FTP, name this physical quantity, more commonly given as the product of mass and velocity.	momentum	Velocity	False
1782	His works include 1625's Lot Fleeing from Sodom, which is now housed in the Louvre. After studying under Venius, he went to Italy in 1600, where he began working for Vincenzo Gonzaga, a period during which he painted his Transfiguration and The Baptism of Christ. FTP, name this painter of the Ildefenso Altarpiece, The Toilet of Venus, and the Descent from the Cross, a Flemish Baroque artist best known for his distinctive portrayals of fleshy female nudes.	Peter Paul Rubens	Baptism	False
1783	His novels include The Dean's December and his nonfiction includes To Jerusalem and Back and It All Adds Up. He created a new Jewish tradition in American fiction through his first novel, Dangling Man. The death of poet and friend Delmore Schwartz was dealt with in Humboldt's Gift. FTP name the author of Henderson the Rain King, The Adventures of Augie March, and Herzog.	Saul Bellow	Jerusalem	False
1784	During this dynasty, the devastation caused to the old capital Chang'an necessitated the later rulers of it to govern from Luoyang. Originally founded by Liu (Lyo) Bang, it took its name from the western kingdom that Liu had ruled before he became emperor. The reign of this dynasty was interrupted for fourteen years by Wang Mang, while its fall led to the three kingdoms period. FTP, name this dynasty that gives its name to ethnic Chinese, lasting from 206 BC to 220 AD.	Han Dynasty	Romance_of_the_Three_Kingdoms	False
1785	"In the state legislature, he led a caucus called the Long Nine who logrolled to move the state capital from Vandalia, and 12 years later, he was offered the governorship of the Oregon Territory. That was after he had stepped aside to let his friend Stephen Logan run for his seat in Congress. In Congress he had earned the nickname ""Spotty"" for proposing the Spot Resolutions, and after he left, he held no elective office for more than a decade. FTP, name this man who returned to politics in 1858 in a losing senate bid against Stephen Douglas, two years before being elected to a higher office."	Abraham Lincoln	Oregon	False
1786	His early works include collections of poetry like Man: A Broad Garden and The Last May, as well as a one-act play, The Owners of the Keys. The author of the critical works Testaments Betrayed and The Art of the Novel, he moved to France in 1975, a year before The Farewell Party appeared. FTP, name this novelist of Life Is Elsewhere, The Joke, and The Book of Laughter and Forgetting, a Czech author best known for 1984's The Unbearable Lightness of Being.	Milan Kundera	The_Unbearable_Lightness_of_Being	False
1787	After studying at Rutgers and the University of Chicago, he received his Ph.D. from Columbia University and joined the faculty of the University of Chicago in 1946. Together with his wife Rose he advocated a negative income tax to supersede centralized social welfare services, which he claimed hurt traditional values of individualism and useful work. His works include Capitalism and Freedom, Monetary Trends of the United States and the United Kingdom and A Monetary History of the United States. FTP, name this winner of the 1976 Nobel Prize in Economics.	Milton Friedman	Chicago	False
1788	August 11, 3114 BCE has been computed as the beginning date for this civilization's calendar. They used a vigesimal number system and knew the use of zero. Sacrifices to the rain god Chac-mool were made by hurling virgins down a well. The same was allegedly done to the 12th century ruler Kukulkan. The great structures of their classical period include Bonampak, Palenque, and Tikal, which contains a pyramid 229 feet high. FTP, name this civilization, the most famous ruin of which is Chichen Itza.	Mayan	Maya_civilization	False
1789	"During his time in Oklahoma, he came to believe that the United States had mistreated the Native Americans, and he later reorganized the Bureau of Indian Affairs. When his wife invited a black woman to the White House and the Texas legislature demanded his impeachment, he said, ""One of the consolations of organized religion is that it provides a hot hell for the Texas legislature."" As Secretary of Commerce, he denied a radio frequency to a group wishing to announce the imminent end of the world, saying if there really was only a month left, they had better ways to spend their money. FTP, name this President, who also said that he was the only man of such economic genius as to have a worldwide depression named for him."	Herbert Hoover	Texas	False
1790	First formulated in 1803, it is based on the idea that, in dilute solutions, solute molecules are bordered primarily by solvent molecules, and thus the probability of escape for a given solute molecule is independent of their total concentration. Therefore, the return rate from a gas above the solution will inevitably equal the rate of escape from the solution. Thus, for dilute solutions at equilibrium with a gas at very low pressure, the gas pressure will be proportional to the amount of dissolved gas. FTP, this states what relation, named for the 19th-century British chemist who discovered it?	Henry's Law	Solubility	False
1791	"Following his service for the Union in the Civil War, he went west with a military expedition and eventually became editor of a San Francisco newspaper. During a brief sojourn in London, he published under the pseudonym ""Dad Grile"" stories from the magazines Figaro and Fun with the title Cobwebs from an Empty Skull. After returning to the United States he worked for Hearst and wrote a column for the Sunday Examiner. He disappeared in Mexico in 1913, after publishing his most famous work, which he originally entitled the Cynic's Workbook. FTP, name this author of the Devil's Dictionary."	Ambrose Gwinett Bierce	San_Francisco	False
1792	"His only attempt at drama was a collaboration on the play Three Hours After Marriage, and his prose works include a comic version of Longinus's treatise on the sublime entitled Peri Bathous, or the Art of Sinking in Poetry. He completed the fourth book of his projected ""Opus Magnum"" with the four moral epistles, and his other poems include Windsor Forest, Eloisa to Abelard, and the Epistle to Doctor Arbuthnot. FTP, name this English author of The Dunciad and The Rape of the Lock."	Alexander Pope	Peter_Abelard	False
1793	Her only volume of poetry, April Twilights, was published in 1903, two years before she joined the staff of McClure's Magazine. Her late works include Lucy Gayheart, the story of the daughter of a German-born watchmaker who moves to Chicago to study music; My Mortal Enemy, set in New York around the turn of the century; and Sapphira and the Slave Girl, the only one of her novels to be set in her home state of Virginia. FTP, name this novelist of The Song of the Lark, One of Ours, and Death Comes for the Archbishop.	Willa Siebert Cather	A_Room_with_a_View	False
1794	In this reaction, the adduct of butadiene and maleic anhydride is used in the synthesis of the important fungicide captan. It does not require a catalyst, nor is the reaction retarded by the presence of oxidation inhibitors. One of the most valuable and versatile methods for the preparation of the compounds containing a six-membered ring, it proceeds most rapidly when the dienophile is substituted by electron-attracting groups. FTP, identify this reaction, also known as diene synthesis, the 1,4-addition of an alkene to a conjugated diene which was discovered in 1928 by two German chemists.	Diels-Alder reaction (accept diene synthesis on early buzz)	Diels–Alder_reaction	False
1795	"Its Latin epigraph comes from the seventeenth century theologian Thomas Burnet, and states that there are more invisible than visible beings in the universe. The prose notes were added to the poem in 1817, 19 years after it was first published. In its seventh and final section, the narrator is saved from drowning by the Hermit of the Wood, and divulges the moral of his story, that ""He prayeth best, who loveth best / All things both great and small"" to his unwilling interlocutor, the Wedding Guest. FTP, identify this poem, whose protagonist causes the deaths of his fellow seamen when he shoots an Albatross, which was written by Samuel Taylor Coleridge."	The {Rime of the Ancient Mariner}	The_Rime_of_the_Ancient_Mariner	True
1796	Particularly useful when expressed in action-angle variables, it is the operator for which eigenvalues are sought in the Schrodinger equation.  A function of the canonical positions and momenta, under certain conditions it is equal to the energy of the system.  For ten points, what function of classical mechanics, named for an Irish mathematician, is closely related to the Lagrangian?	Hamiltonian	Wave_function	False
1797	"He sailed on the Almaz in 1862, which visited New York City, Baltimore, and Washington D.C. at the height of the Civil War, after graduating from the Russian naval academy.  Upon return, he finished his first symphony, which he had started under the guidance of Mily Balakirev.  Aquatic scenes appear in many of the operas of, FTP, what most productive of ""The Five"" whose operatic works include Snow Maiden, The Tsar's Bride, and Tale of Tsar Saltan?"	Nikolay Rimsky-Korsakov	Baltimore	False
1798	"In 1741, Frederick the Great made him a member of the Berlin Academy, where he produced a steady stream of mathematical works, despite being blind in one eye.  The author of the Konigsberg Bridge problem, the equation ""e to the i times theta equals cosine theta plus i times sine theta"" is known as his identity, and he was the first to introduce the capital sigma as a symbol for sum, as well as pi for that transcendental number.  FTP, name this Swiss mathematician."	Leonhard Euler	Sine	False
1799	The son of Frederick Louis and Augusta, he was unable to read properly until age 11, one year before becoming heir to the throne. Around his 18th birthday, he began to torment himself with thoughts of his own inadequacy. Some 20th century investigators have suggested he suffered from porphyria, producing the agonizing pain, excited overactivity, paralysis and delirium he exhibited at least four times during his life. FTP, name this man portrayed by Nigel Hawthorne in a 1994 film, the King of Hanover from 1814-20 and King of Britain for 60 years.	King George III	Nathaniel_Hawthorne	False
1800	"In the various wars of the Arabian peninsula, this power maintained the client tribe of the Kinda, which fought surrogate battles against the Lakhmids and Gassanids. This country subdued the Jewish kings of the Yemeni Arabs and, using a baggage train of elephants, failed to take Mecca in the ""Year of the Elephant,"" 570 AD. In 1896, it won the Battle of Adowa, defeating colonializing Italians. For ten points, name this African country later occupied by Fascist Italy."	Ethiopia or Abyssinia	Italy	False
1801	It is said that he jammed a rag full of powder into the keyhole of another student's room and ignited it to earn dismissal from Yale within two years of his entrance at age 13. He then went to sea for several years and eventually inherited money from his father, but it wasn't until the age of 30 that he started writing when he told his wife, Susan Augusta DeLancey, that he could write a better book than the one he was reading to her, leading to his first novel, Precaution. FTP, name this author whose works include Lionel Lincoln, The Pilot, The Pathfinder and Last of the Mohicans.	James Fenimore Cooper	The_Last_of_the_Mohicans	False
1802	"He has survived thirty-two wars, ""fourteen attempts on his life, seventy-three ambushes, and a firing squad"" and when he finally dies it is of old age while he is urinating. As his sons are assassinated, he has no heirs, but has many namesakes, the last of which is born with a pig's tail. For ten points, name this character, the son of Ursula and Arcadio, the first child born in Macondo in One Hundred Years of Solitude."	Aureliano Buendia [Prompt on Buendia]	One_Hundred_Years_of_Solitude	False
1803	The first and last names are the same.  The younger was Russian-born, but came to the US and studied art in New York before returning to Paris to study under Matisse.  A leader of the Abstract Expressionists, his paintings include Three Literary Gentlemen, Latest News, and Chinese Restaurant.  The elder taught law and political economy in Germany before accepting the chair at Vienna of the discipline of which he is considered a founder.  For 10 points, who are these men, the elder of whom wrote The Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism?	Max Weber (Both names are required.)	Henri_Matisse	False
1804	"Its introduction includes a dedication, ""for Rachel,"" and the lines, ""The phonograph of hades in the brain / are tunnels that rewind themselves;"" One of the pieces, ""Ave Maria,"" is written entirely in Latin and is addressed to Seneca, while ""Quaker Hill,"" contains remarks to Isadora Duncan and Emily Dickinson. Its second most famous poem might be ""Cape Hatteras,"" which is directed toward Walt Whitman, however this 1930 collection is primarily known for the opening poem, dedicated to a New York landmark. FTP, identify this best-known work of Hart Crane."	The Bridge	Song_of_Myself	False
1805	The four horses that drew his chariot were known as the Killer, the Pitiless, Trampler, and Haste. He was born in the temple in which Mummu was held captive by a nose rope, and he would later build Esharra, or the Great Palace, where he sat alongside his consort Sarpanitu. The special weapons granted to him included Abuba, the tornado, and Imhullu, the great wind, though the most useful would be the net gifted to him by Anu. With that net he would kill Kingu, and create the first humans. However, what Babylonian god's most famous exploit is, FTP, the creation of the earth and sky from the carcass of his slain victim Tiamat?	Marduk or Bel	Horse	False
1806	In hydrodynamics, setting this equal to zero in the Navier-Stokes equation leads to the Euler equation.  The kinematic type is measured in stokes, while for Newtonian fluids it is a constant.  Often thought of as the internal friction of molecules, for ten points, name this fluid property, the resistance of a fluid to relative motions.	viscosity	Friction	False
1807	"His works include ""The Proustian theme in a letter from Keats to Benjamin Bailey"" and a manual of French literature.  Born in Paris in 1910, this son of an inn-keeping widower has two romantic encounters with a girl named Annabel at age 13.  He spends his adulthood yearning for ""nymphets"" between nine and 14.  FTP, name this lover of Dolores Haze, the man with a double cognomen in Vladimir Nabokov's Lolita."	Humbert Humbert	Lolita	False
1808	The main character of this work dies after having failed to cauterize a cut he receives while performing an autopsy on a peasant who has expired from typhoid. Earlier, he offends Kukshina and her would-be partner Sitnikov at a dance. Women repeatedly get him in trouble and his unrequited passion for Anna sends him away from the company of his lone friend, while his flirting with Fenechka leads to a duel with the elitist Pavel, the uncle of Arkadii. FTP, identify this 1862 work about generational difference, featuring Nikolai Petrovich Kirsanov and Evgenii Bazarov, and written by Ivan Turgenev.	Fathers and Sons	Fathers_and_Sons_(novel)	True
1809	Composed of a stack of five to eight disk-shaped membraned vesicles, it is structurally polarized with a 'cis' face near the transitional region of the RER and a 'trans' face near the plasma membrane.  The principal director of cellular protein traffic is, for ten points, what organelle named for its 1898 discoverer, an Italian cytologist.	Golgi apparatus  or complex or body	Cell_membrane	False
1810	"As mentioned in the Asimov short story ""Pate de Fois Gras,"" this element's isotopes have the highest ""packing fraction,"" that is, that they use the most energy per nucleon to maintain nuclear stability, making them the most stable. The presence of this element in a stellar core is a star's death knell, as its fusion, like all elements lighter than it, is an endothermic process instead of exothermic. FTP, identify this element, of which Rudyard Kipling wrote ""is the master of them all,"" the lightest ferromagnetic element and 90% component of Earth's core."	iron	Rudyard_Kipling	False
1811	In the unborn child, it functions primarily to produce red blood cells, a function that normally ceases after birth but that may be resumed later if diseases slow down this function in the bone marrow. It produces antibodies against various disease organisms and manufactures a variety of blood cells. In some other mammals, it stores red blood cells and feeds them into the circulation to maintain the volume of blood. FTP identify this left-side abdominal organ, once classified as an endocrine gland.	spleen	Red_blood_cell	False
1812	Salvador Dali and Luis Bunuel were most responsible for this writer's exposure to surrealism, which is reflected in his A Poet in New York and his comic play The Shoemaker's Marvelous Wife. He was lifted to fame by his series of ballads Romancero Gitano, which embodied his theme of sexual repression, but is most famous for his three tragedies, including Yerma. FTP name the assassinated author of The House of Bernardo Alba and Blood Wedding.	Federico Garcia Lorca	El_Salvador	False
1813	"Marlowe called him ""the Scythian Shepherd"", but he was actually a Tartar born in Turkestan. After gaining the throne in 1369, he proceeded to beat the living snot out of Afghanistan, Persia, India, and Asia Minor. He sacked Delhi, conquered Baghdad, captured Damascus, pushed into Egypt, and died of fever before he could subdue China. All this in the space of 36 years. FTP identify this descendant of Genghis Khan who apparently lost the athletic prowess he had in his youth."	Tamurlaine or Timur the Lame	Genghis_Khan	False
1814	Giving the same products as the Peterson reaction, unlike the Knoevenagel and aldol reactions, it is stereoselective and regiospecific.  Beta-carotene is synthesized from vitamin A using this reaction in which an aldehyde or ketone reacts with a phosphonium ylide to form an alkene. For ten points, name this eponymous reaction which won its German discoverer a share of a Nobel Prize.	Wittig reaction	Aldol_condensation	False
1815	Born circa 1336 of obscure origins, by 1357 this man was already a general of some repute who was made vizier to the khan Tughlaq Temur of Transoxania before turning against him and setting himself on the throne. He then embarked on a series of conquests which encompassed Persia, Fars, Iraq, Azerbaijan, Armenia, Mesopotamia, and Georgia, as well as parts of India while making his capital, Samarkand, a center of architectural splendor and culture. For 10 points name this Tartar ruler, whose life was dramatized by Christopher Marlowe.	Timur the Lame or Tamerlane or Tambor-Lenk or Tamburlaine	Christopher_Marlowe	False
1816	"According to a Lawrence Ferlinghetti poem, the figures in this artist's scenes ""writhe upon the page in a veritable rage of adversity."" A bullfighter in his youth, his 1st major artistic commission was for the frescoes in the Zaragoza cathedral; he was later employed by Raphael Mengs as a cartoonist in the royal tapestry works. FTP, name this man known for his macabre ""Black Paintings"", etchings in ""Los Proverbios"" and ""Los Capricios"" and paintings like ""The Naked Maja"" and ""The 3rd of May, 1808."""	Francisco Jose de Goya y Lucientes	Raphael	False
1817	Its significance was identified in 1972 by Kerr, Wylie, and Currie. Affecting scattered single cells, features include the disintegration of cell junctions, cytoplasmic condensation, and fragmentation of the nucleus.  A mutation in gene p53 stops this process which cells in the uterine wall undergo monthly.  For ten points, name this alternative to necrosis, a programmed form of cell death.	apoptosis or cell deletion (accept programmed cell death before it's mentioned)	B_cell	False
1818	"This author was born in Silesia to a judge and the daughter of a Bohemian conductor, from which he feels all of his poetic talent stems. His works, like The Abject, have been ranked with Schiller's ""Simple and Sentimental Poetry."" While trying to take a break from finishing his masterpiece Maia, he met Thaddeus, a frail Polish boy, better known as Tadzio to his mother and friends. FTP, name this German author, who, after falling in love with the young boy, exposes himself to tuberculosis in Thomas Mann's Death in Venice."	Gustave von Aschenbach	Death_in_Venice	False
1819	It's the other particle produced in the fusion of two protons to form a deuteron and a positron.  The SAGE experiment uses gallium, Super-Kamiokande uses water, and the Homestake mine uses cleaning fluid to detect their weak interaction with matter.  For ten points, name this neutral lepton with little or no mass.	electron neutrino	Positron	False
1820	Following the surrender of powers to Mutsuhito, the feudal Daimyo and Samurai systems were quickly dismantled, a Western-style constitution was introduced, and a policy of government-sponsored industrial development was implemented. Precipitated by the Tokugawa Shogunate's increasingly severe internal difficulties in the first half of the 19th century, this event  marked the return of imperial rule in Japan. FTP, name this 1868 transfer of power which has been credited with allowing Japan to be transformed into a centralized modern state.	Meiji Restoration	Meiji_Restoration	True
1821	They include coedine as well as the gasoline additive MTBE.  They readily form azeotropes, their salts are oxonium compounds, and they can be made by the hydration of olefins or dehydration of alcohols. The best known form of what class of organic compounds consists of two ethyl groups bound to an oxygen that, FTP, was once used as an anesthetic?	ethers	Oxygen	False
1822	"In 1850, this man bought a farm near Pittsfield, Massachusetts that he called ""Arrowhead."" After the commercial success of his first two novels, his readers were disappointed by his virtually unreadable third novel, a strange work of antiquarian literary, philosophical, metaphysical, and political hodgepodge. His poetry is collected in Timoleon, Battle-Pieces and Aspects of the War, and John Marr, and Other Sailors. FTP, name this American author of Israel Potter, Mardi, The Confidence-Man and White-Jacket.."	Herman Melville	Massachusetts	False
1823	The curse of Count Monterone resonates throughout this opera, both opening and closing the action.  In between, the title character pays Sparafucile to kill the Duke of Mantua, but the assassin instead decides to kill the first person that walks in the door.  Unfortunately for the conspirator who planned the assassination, his own daughter - Gilda - trots on through and is slain.  FTP, name her father, a court jester, and you've named this Giuseppe Verdi classic.	Rigoletto	Rigoletto	True
1824	In a 1998 article in the New England Journal of Medicine a team of doctors and historians declared his cause of death to be typhoid fever.  They drew their conclusion not so much from his symptoms of fever, chest pain, and partial paralysis as recorded by Plutarch and Arrian, but mainly because of strange reports that his body did not decompose until several days after his death.  For 10 points, who was this man whose body, under orders by his general Ptolemy, was then immersed in honey to prevent further decomposition during the trip to his final interment in Egypt in 323 BC?	Alexander III of Macedon, or Alexander the Great	Egypt	False
1825	"After his first opera was well received, he was offered a contract to compose three operas at eight-month intervals.  He turned out the first of the three, the poorly received King for a Day, during a period in which he lost both of his children and then his wife. After a time of depression, he wrote his first major success, which included the ""Chorus of the Hebrew Slaves."" FTP, identify this composer of Nabucco, The Force of Destiny, and Aida."	Giuseppe Fortunino Francesco Verdi	Aida	False
1826	The canonical form of this is the partial derivative of the Lagrangian with respect to the generalized velocity.  For a photon, it is the energy divided by the speed of light, while Newton's second law states that force equals its time derivative.  For ten points, what quantity is sometimes written as the product of the mass times the velocity?	momentum	Velocity	False
1827	"He was a fanatical nationalist, and his writing's complete lack of Western influences emphasized that devotion.  He focused on creating images rather than ideas, and his short story ""The House of the Sleeping Beauties"" exemplifies that unique style.  His collections, such as Snow Country, The Sound of the Mountain, and Thousand Cranes all have dreamlike qualities and a succint style.  FTP name this 1968 Nobel Prize for Literature recipient, the first Japanese author to win that award."	Yasumari Kawabata	Snow	False
1828	"This man's first published book, German Social Democracy, was initially dedicated to his longtime mentor, the metaphysician J.M.E. McTaggart. His versatile career included the book Is Modern Marriage a Failure?, inspired by his four failed marriages, and his famous ""Man's Peril"" radio broadcast, condemning the Bikini Atoll H-bomb tests. His philosophical system of logical atomism permeated the books The Analysis of Matter and The Analysis of Mind. Winner of the Nobel Prize in literature in 1950, FTP, identify this logician and philosopher best known for a collaboration, Principia Mathematica."	Bertrand Russell	Marriage	False
1829	"Shin Inouye (IN-oo-ay) was involved in the observation of the first Feshbach resonance and super radiance within it. The Gross-Pitaevskii equation is used to analyze those substances capable of its formation, which occurs when de Broglie wavelengths of the involved atoms begin to overlap. Wieman, Cornell, and Ketterle first experimentally verified this shared quantum state that occurs when bosons making up a substance merge into the lowest energy level. FTP, identify this ""fifth"" state matter, named for the two scientists who proposed it in 1925."	Bose-Einstein condensate	Bose–Einstein_condensate	False
1830	Introducing the signal flag, using a mobile circle of wagons as a base of operations, and adopting the decimal system to troops units, this general overcame both limited manpower and a deficiency of protective armor. Prioritizing speed, he relied solely on cavalry units, engaging in sneak attacks on smaller enemy detachments. Turning on his former allies, Torghil and Jamulka, he consolidated victories over the Taichi'ut and Tatars. FTP, identify this general who destroyed the Khwarizm Empire, sacked Beijing in 1215, and totally ravaged Asman's Sporting Goods in a 1989 movie.	Genghis Khan	Beijing	False
1831	After the death of Sigismund II Augustus, the last of the Jagiellonian line, the nobles in this nation elected Henry of Valois, the future Henry III of France, as king.  Later elected rulers included members of the Swedish Vasa line, and from 1674 to 1696 the great hetman John III Sobieski, who defeated the Turks seizing Vienna in 1683.  For 10 points, name this nation which continued electing kings until it was partitioned out of existence.	Poland	Henry_V_of_England	False
1832	"At the age of 16, he wrote the manuscript ""Memoirs of a Mad Man,"" which related his passion for Elisa Schlesinger, a passion he would finally reveal to her 35 years later.  Elisa became the model for his character Marie Arnoux, who is lusted after by Frederic Moreau in a novel set around the Revolution of 1848.  For 10 points, name this French author of The Sentimental Education who is more famous of his Madame Bovary."	Gustave Flaubert	Madame_Bovary	False
1833	Modest Mussorgsky's Pictures at an Exhibition was originally a piano piece before it was orchestrated by this person. Because of the tonal color, harmonies, and mood of much of his music, he is often associated with the French impressionistic composer Claude Debussy. His impressionistic leanings can be heard in his orchestral suite Rhapsodie espagnole, as well as his ballet Pavane for a Dead Infanta. FTP, name this French composer of the celebrated orchestral piece Bolero.	Maurice Ravel	Modest_Mussorgsky	False
1834	"General Grant was confident that the Confederates would remain at Corinth, and thus failed to order adequate defenses. No defensive entrenchments, no cavalry patrols, and few picket lines were established. The battle's name came from a simple log meeting house a few miles from the river, and it is ironically named for the Biblical village meaning ""place of peace."" The Confederates under Beauregard succeeded in a surprise attack, but on the next day thirteen thousand Union and eleven thousand Confederate soldiers were dead. FTP, what was this bloody battle that took place on April 6, 1862?"	Shiloh (prompt on Pittsburgh Landing)	Battle_of_Shiloh	False
1835	He worked as a law professor in Berlin in 1892, before receiving an appointment as a professor of political economy at the University of Freiburg in 1894.  The iron cage, the routinization of charisma, and the rationality of means and ends are just a few of the concepts introduced in his sociological essays.  FTP, identify this German sociologist who wrote The Protestant Ethic and The Spirit of Capitalism.	Max Weber	John_Cage	False
1836	"Theodore II [""the Second""] took the throne in 1855.  In 1868, British troops invaded and Theodore committed suicide.  In 1872, Johannes IV [""the fourth""] became king; but he had a civil war with Menelek, whom the Italians backed.  In 1896, Italy invaded but was humiliated.  Menelek's grandson, Lij Yasu, converted to Islam in 1916, and the Christian church deposed him.  His aunt chose a regional governor, Ras Tafari, as his heir.  This is a history of, for 10 points, what African nation?"	Ethiopia (prompt on Abyssinia)	Haile_Selassie	False
1837	In 1989 the causitive gene was identified by teams of researchers in Michigan and Toronto promising more reliable diagnosis.  As yet, there is no cure, and treatment concentrates on alleviating the symptoms, which include respiratory and digestive problems resulting from impaired chloride passage through cell membranes.  Occurring most frequently in Caucasian Europeans, it is the most common fatal genetic disease of Caucasian children.  FTP, identify this rare disease of the endocrine glands that affects the pancreas, sweat glands, and respiratory system.	Cystic Fibrosis	Pancreas	False
1838	It established its independence in 1385, when John of Avis defeated John of Castile in the Battle of Aljubarrota.  The victorious John, who ruled as John the Great, signed the 1386 Treaty of Windsor with England, creating an alliance that was never broken.  Nonetheless, it remained neutral during World War Two, under the iron rule of Antonio Salazar.  For 10 points, name this country on the Iberian peninsula.	Portugal	JOHN	False
1839	The name, or rather nickname, is the same.  One was a 16th century musician and composer, a product of the Cretan Renaissance who was music master to the Duke of Bavaria and the cantor of Venice.  The other was a painter who set eerie casts on the landscapes that he painted as a wanderer before settling in Toledo.  FTP, Give the shared nickname of Frangiskos Leondaritis and Dominikos Theotokopoulos which refers to their shared Cretan heritage.	El Greco	Crete	False
1840	In conifers, this tissue is made up mainly of tracheids, thus presenting a uniform, nonporous appearance characteristic of softwood.  The primary type is derived from the growth of the apical meristem, while the secondary type is derived from the cambium.  It has several components, including the tracheids, which are elongated conduction and support cells, parenchyma cells for food storage, and woody fibers.  FTP, name this type of vascular tissue that conducts water and nutrients up from the roots.	xylem	Xylem	True
1841	He sought a universal religion which he thought might be found in totemistic worship and, in 1915, published Elementary Forms of the Religious Life.  He also started the journal L'Ann? Sociologique and wrote The Rules of Sociological Method.  FTP, name this social scientist who found that the breakdown of societal norms, which he called anomie, led to increased suicides.	Emile Durkheim	Émile_Durkheim	False
1842	It was not written by Gabriel Garcia Marquez, but this story does deal with love in a time of cholera.  The disease parallels the decadent illness that has fallen over Europe, especially the seaside resort of Lido, where a young Polish boy named Tadzio frolics in the surf and befriends the famous German author Gustav von Aschenbach.  They both fall prey to the plague in, FTP, which Thomas Mann novella?	Death in Venice  or  Der Tod in Venedig	Death_in_Venice	True
1843	Critics considered him a writer of moral allegories, but this author of The Scorpion God and The Spire regarded his own books as fables.  Riddled with literary, mythological and Christian symbols, his best-known work also reflects his experiences in the British Navy and in teaching small boys.  FTP, name this 1983 Nobel laureate, author of The Pyramid, Pincher Martin, and Lord of the Flies.	William Golding	Lord_of_the_Flies	False
1844	In 1864 Brazil invaded and occupied Uruguay.  Paraguayan leader Francisco Lopez planned to attack southern Brazil and reach Uruguay by going through Argentina; instead he met with hostility on the part of Argentina, who would not let Lopez pass through.  In January 1865, Lopez crossed the Argentine border, and an all-out conflict ensued.  FTP, name this war, in which Uruguay and Brazil teamed up with Argentina to defeat Lopez and his troops.	War of the Triple Alliance	Uruguay	False
1845	Later in life, Zeus turned her into a lion for sleeping in a sacred grove with her husband.  Abandoned at birth by her father and raised by hunters, she went on to use her hunting skills to help defeat the Calydonian boar.  FTP, name this swift heroine of Greek myth, who was bested in a foot race by her husband-to-be.	Atalanta	Zeus	False
1846	"Its basic rhyme scheme is aaba, and in extant manuscripts these are customarily arranged alphabetically according to the letter concluding the rhyme.  The first edition translation of one set begins ""Awake! For Morning in the Bowl of Night / Has flung the Stone that puts the Stars to Flight,"" and like the masnavi, it is purely a Persian genre.  FTP, identify this verse form, whose name means ""quatrains,"" the most famous set of which were translated by Edward FitzGerald and written by a son of a tent-maker."	rubaiyat  or  ruba'i (singular)	Rubaiyat_of_Omar_Khayyam	False
1847	This empire was ruled from its capital at Pataliputra, now the city of Patna.  Founded by the king of Magadha who, from his home of Bihar, drove out the Greeks, it fell to the Sungas in 187 BC. FTP, identify this empire, whose third ruler accepted Buddhism, which was founded by Chandragupta and which ruled India for 150 years.	the Mauryan empire	Chandragupta_Maurya	False
1848	He first came to America in 1883, as part of an expedition sent to study native culture on Baffin Island.  Three years later, he became a professor at Clark University, from which he studied the natives of British Columbia.  FTP, identify this author of Race and Democratic Society, Anthropology and Modern Life, and The Mind of Primitive Man, a longtime teacher of anthropology at Columbia University whose students included Ruth Benedict, Zora Neale Hurston, and Margaret Mead.	Franz Boas	Ruth_Benedict	False
1849	They have a life span of about four months, after which time they are destroyed in the spleen and liver.  In most vertebrates, they are nucleated ovoids, but in mammals they are disc-shaped and without nuclei.  FTP, identify this type of cell, which contains the pigment hemoglobin, and which is the most numerous type of blood cell, developing from erythroblasts.	erythrocytes (accept red blood cell on early buzz)	Spleen	False
1850	His plays include The Living Room and The Complaisant Lover, and his short stories are collected in May We Borrow Your Husband?.  Switzerland is the setting for his Doctor Fischer of Geneva or the Bomb Party, while The Human Factor is set in South Africa and World War II. London is set setting for both The End of the Affair and The Ministry of Fear.  FTP, identify this British author of The Quiet American and Brighton Rock, best known for such novels as Our Man in Havana and The Heart of the Matter.	Graham Greene	South_Africa	False
1851	"This 1922 poem begins with an epigraph from Petronius, in which the Cumaean Sibyl replies to the question ""What do you want?"" by saying ""I want to die.""  The imagery soon shifts to a place ""where the sun beats // And the dead tree gives no shelter, the cricket no relief, // And the dry stone no sound of water.""  The next three sections are ""A Game of Chess,"" ""The Fire Sermon,"" ""Phlebas the Phoenician,"" and ""What the Thunder Said.""  FTP, name this T.S. Eliot poem in which ""April is the cruellest month."""	The Wasteland	The_Waste_Land	True
1852	"As a critic, he would say, ""Hats off, gentlemen, a genius"" upon discovering Chopin. As a piano player, he would ruin his career by using a homemade machine to strengthen his right hand. As a piano composer, his suite Carnaval, Cute Scenes on Four Notes, has 21 short pieces mostly based on three fragments. For ten points, name this composer whose first symphony would be titled Spring and whose third would be dubbed Rhenish."	Robert Schumann	Frédéric_Chopin	False
1853	This Columbia-educated dramatist would author plays such as Dark Age, The Strange Mushroom, Fatherly Love and many plays for children, although his greatest success was possibly The Little Nymph. He collaborated with Vivian Darkbloom on The Lady Who Loved Lightning, which was the unnamed play seen in Wace by Humbert Humbert and Lolita. For ten points, name this character who is murdered by Humbert later in the novel Lolita.	Clare Quilty (Prompt on Cue)	Lolita	False
1854	This god was represented as a vigorous, red-haired youth, and was armed with iron gloves, a belt of strength, and a magical hammer that returned to him.  Associated with marriage, the hearth, and agriculture, according to tradition, he failed to smash the skull of Jormungand and the 2 are destined to kill each other in the Ragnarok.  FTP name this Norse god of thunder, might, and war.	Thor	Skull	False
1855	"This painting shares it name with the first novel in a trilogy by Joyce Carol Oates. The left wing represents Earth, the middle, ""Ecclesia's Paradise"", and the right, hell. The cover of this triptych, which hangs in the Prado, depicts the third day of creation.  Its painter's surname was van Aeken, but he went by a name which referred to Hertogenbosch, where he was born.  FTP, give the name of this painting by Hieronymus Bosch,"	Garden of Earthly Delights	Hieronymus_Bosch	False
1856	Born in 1840 near Dorchester, England, this son of a stonemason grew up with loves for both music and literature.  He was forced to apprentice as an architect due to lack of money for schooling.  While in this position, he continually wrote, turning out Desperate Remedies and A Pair of Blue Eyes.  His success made marriage feasible, and he married Emma Lavinia Gifford in 1874.  FTP, name the man who wrote the novels The Return of the Native and The Mayor of Casterbridge.	Thomas Hardy	EMMA	False
1857	This country includes the Adygei Region as well as the Karachaevo-Cherkess Republic, Kabardino-Balkar Republic, North Ossetian Republic, Checheno-Ingush Republic, Daghestan Republic, Mordovian Republic, Chuvash Republic, Mari Republic, Tatar Republic, and the Udmurt Republic.  FTP name this country which in land area is by far the largest in the world.	Russia	Czech_Republic	False
1858	In 1551, this man became a member of the Antwerp Guild.  He visited Italy soon after, but remained a proponent of the Flemish tradition.  He painted religious histories such as Numbering at Bethlehem, parables such as The Blind Leading the Blind, and landscapes such as Harvesters.  FTP, name this member of an illustrious family of painters, best known for his Peasant Wedding.	Pieter Bruegel the Elder	Visual_impairment	False
1859	"His fianc? worked for a ""hideous Jew in the most amazing waistcoat ever beheld in this life."" He thought her an amazing Juliet, but when he rebuffed her she committed suicide. Later, the name he used in his dealings with her came back to haunt him when her brother, James Vane, came upon him and recognized this ""Prince Charming."" He was saved by the fact that he did not look as old as Vane expected, but he died when he tried to destroy the object that absorbed his moral degradation. FTP, name this title character of Oscar Wilde's only novel."	(The Picture of) Dorian Grey	Oscar_Wilde	False
1860	"The narrative in this work is in a spiral structure that repeats most of the book's events several times from only slightly different perspectives. A repeated refrain alludes to Fran?is Villon's Ballade des Dames du Temps Jadis (bah-LOD day DOM doo TOM zha-DEE), but the question has been changed to ""Where are the Snowdens of yesteryear?"" Other important characters include Aarfy, Clevinger, Appleby, and Nately's whore's kid sister. FTP, name this novel about the pilot Yossarian, whose title is now used to describe any lose-lose situation."	Catch-22	Catch-22	True
1861	A subplot in this work concerns the love of the young and impressionable Arkady for Katya Odintsova. Major roles are also played by Katya's sister Anna, the love interest of the main character, and Arkady's uncle Pavel, who is wounded in a duel with the same. The duel is fought over a perceived generational conflict between the men of the 40's and the nihilists, exemplified by Evgeny Bazarov. FTP, identify this novel by Ivan Turgenev.	Fathers and Sons or Fathers and Children; also accept Ottsy i deti	Fathers_and_Sons_(novel)	False
1862	"Her husband George is an amiable bore absorbed in his research into ""The Domestic Industries of Brabant in the Middle Ages,"" in marked contrast to her first suitor Eilert, who claims his research is into forces that will ""shape our world."" Though she tries to destroy Eilert's work, it is preserved, and she fears that her role in Eilert's suicide will be discovered and there will be a scandal.  Eventually, she commits suicide rather than become the mistress of Judge Brack, who attempts to blackmail her with his knowledge of events.  For 10 points, name this title character of an Henrik Ibsen play."	Hedda Gabler	Hedda_Gabler	True
1863	It occurs with a rate of about 50 arcseconds per year and has a period of about 26,000 years.  To account for the effect astronomical coordinates are given in terms of the epoch.  It is caused by the torque of the Sun and Moon on the Earth's rotational bulge, which is tilted with respect to the orbital plane.  As a result, Vega will be the Pole Star in another 13,000 years.  FTP name this effect discovered by Hipparchus of Rhodes	precession of the equinoxes or equivalents (prompt on precession)	Torque	False
1864	"Set in the house of the wealthy aristocrat Cephalus, it begins as a discussion of the benefits of wealth.  Though the gruff Sophist Thrasymachus attempts to pin down Socrates and force him to abandon his relentless question-and-Answer method, Thrasymachus is eventually forced to defend his belief that ""might is right, and justice is the interest of the stronger.""  For 10 points-name this Platonic dialogue that introduces the concept of the philosopher-king and contains the Allegory of the Cave."	The Republic	Republic_(Plato)	False
1865	This composer held a series of odd jobs in the theater and gave private lessons to support himself, nearly starving until he won the Prix de Rome in 1830.  He was later hired to teach music at the Paris Conservatory, ironic because he himself had been denied admission to the Conservatory because of his late start as a musician. For 10 points-name this French composer of Les Troyens, Roman Carnival, Beatrice and Benedict, and Harold in Italy.	Hector Berlioz	Ruth_Benedict	False
1866	After studying at the Curtis Institute of Music, he attracted notice in 1933 with his overture to The School for Scandal. In 1935 his Symphony No. 1 was performed in Rome and at the Salzburg Festival. Other works include the Capricorn Concerto, Antony and Cleopatra, and Prayers of Kierkegaard. FTP identify this American composer well known for his Adagio for Strings and the opera Vanessa.	Samuel Barber	Cleopatra	False
1867	He was chained to a rock below a serpent whose mouth dripped venom. His wife would try to catch the drops in a cup, but when she turned away to empty it, the venom fell on his face  and he writhed in anguish, causing earthquakes. Siguna did the best she could, but he would remain bound until Ragnarok as punishment for his plot to kill Balder. FTP identify the punished personage, and Norse god of strife and envy.	Loki	Earthquake	False
1868	Working closely with real estate developer William Zeckendorf, he created such urban projects as the Place Ville-Marie in Montreal. After branching out on his own, notable designs included those for the Everson Museum of Art in Syracuse, N.Y. and a pentagonal control tower for use by the FAA. He began a rebuilding project for the Louvre in 1984, but much of his work was in the northeast U.S. such as the New York City Convention Center and the JFK Memorial Library at Harvard. After founding his own firm in 1955, he might have been returning to his roots with designs for the Luce Memorial Chapel in Taiwan and the Beijing Fragrant Hall. FTP, name this Chinese-born American architect.	Ieoh Ming Pei	Beijing	False
1869	In Matlab, it is the percent sign.  In FORTRAN, the letter C.  In Pascal, enclosure between parentheses and asterisks.  In Perl, the pound sign.  In C++, double forward slash, or, as in C, enclosure between forward slashes and asterisks.  FTP, what are these symbols in their respective languages?	comment markers or comments	Blaise_Pascal	False
1870	"This man is not Prince Hamlet.  He is incapable of hearing the mermaids.  He does not dare even eat a peach.  Women constantly mock the bald spot in his head and the thinness of his arms and legs.  He can't even join their foolish discussions of Michelangelo.  FTP name this creation of T.S. Eliot who issues an ironic ""love song."""	J. Alfred Prufrock	Michelangelo	False
1871	"At the age of 23 he was excommunicated from his synagogue for his daring challenges to orthodox thought.  One of his most shocking ideas was a precursor to modern Pantheism: he considered God and the universe to be the same thing, and always referred to it as ""God-or-nature"".  These ideas branded him as a dangerous atheist in 17th century Europe.  For ten points, what Dutch philosopher developed his own views as criticism of those of Descartes?"	Baruch (Benedict) Spinoza	Meditations_on_First_Philosophy	False
1872	"Though she was once quoted as saying, ""I was brought up to believe that the only thing worth doing was to add to the sum of accurate information in the world,"" her most famous book was eventually revealed to be based on a hoax.  A pioneer of the use of film to document culture, she and her husband produced such films as Trance and Dance in Bali and Learning to Dance in Bali. For ten points, who claimed that lack of sexual repression made adolescence less troublesome in Samoa?"	Margaret Mead	Coming_of_Age_in_Samoa	False
1873	This religion encourages cooperation between science and religion.  It claims that there is one God worshipped by all religions, and the messages of all prophets have validity.  Its ambitious goals include an end to racial and gender prejudice, universal public education, and a truly international language.  These modern ideals are most likely expressed in this religion because it was founded in 1844.  For ten points, what religion has sacred writings written by the Bab, Baha'u'llah, and 'Qabdu'l Baha?	The Baha'i Faith	Prophet	False
1874	It causes the weak bluish white glow in polls of water that shield some nuclear reactors.  It is created by highly energetic charged particles that displace electrons in the medium through which they travel, and the subsequent electromagnetic wave in the wake of these particles is similar to the bow wave of a fast boat.  FTP, what is this light produced when charged particles move through a medium faster than the speed of light in that medium?	Cherenkov or Cerenkov radiation	Refraction	False
1875	The future Byzantine Emporer Romanus II was at one time betrothed to his niece Hedwig, and his son married Theophano, who was either the daughter of the same Romanus II or the niece of John Tzimices.  The son of Henry I, Duke of Saxony, he defeated the Magyars at the Battle of Lech in 955 and was crowned Holy Roman Emperor in 962.  For ten points, name this founder of the dynasty that bears his name.	Otto I	Byzantine_Empire	False
1876	Born in 1788, he left home when his mother, a popular novelist, pushed him down a flight of stars.  He taught at Berlin and Jena, and then settled down in Frankfurt with his pet poodle who biographers now think may have been a really ugly cat.  His philosophy rejects idealism and combines the thought of Meister Ekhart and Jakob Bohme, and he had a signet ring made of the Sphinx tossing itself into the abyss because he believed he had solved all the riddles in the universe.  For ten points, identify this philosopher who wrote The World as Will and Idea.	Arthur Schopenhauer	Berlin	False
1877	"There are many stories of his childhood pranks, usually dealing with his habit of stealing butter. According to some legends the nephew of the evil King Kamsa, he killed Kamsa and became King of the Yadavas, and in the Bhagavad-Gita he appears as a charioteer to offer Arjuna his advice. FTP name this 8th avatar of Vishnu, whose name means ""black."""	Krishna	Bhagavad_Gita	False
1878	Although he was a sometime Communist Party member, his early poetry collections were banned, as much for their eroticism as for their ironic tone.  He followed his successful one-act play The Owners of the Keys with an acclaimed first novel, The Joke. But two years later in 1969 the authorities banned his second novel, Life Is Elsewhere.  In 1975 he emigrated to France, but his novels weren't published in his native Czechoslovakia till 1989. FTP name the author of The Book of Laughter and Forgetting and The Unbearable Lightness of Being.	Milan Kundera	The_Unbearable_Lightness_of_Being	False
1879	He got his first break as a writer just out of high school, as a beat reporter for the Kansas City Star.  In the early twenties he found his way to Paris where writers such as Ford Madox Ford, Ezra Pound, and Gertrude Stein helped him publish his first collection, Three Stories and Ten Poems. This was followed by the publication in 1926 of one of the most important novels to emerge from the American Expatriate community of the 20's.  FTP name this author of The Sun Also Rises.	Ernest Hemingway	Henry_Ford	False
1880	He reigned for 50 years; according to legend, in his old age he died of the poisonous breath of a dragon he'd just slain with the help of the young chieftain Wiglaf.  However, he's best remembered for two earlier fights in the service of King Hrothgar of Denmark.  FTP name this ruler of the Geats, who took out both Grendal and his mom.	Beowulf	Dragon	False
1881	He succeeded as much by research as by his own talent, combining painstaking ethnological research and a constant effort to keep up with the latest musical developments.  His works include Music for Strings, Percussion, and Celesta, several acclaimed string quartets, and the ballet The Miraculous Mandarin.  FTP name this composer born in modern-day Romania but credited with creating a truly Hungarian musical style, as in the opera Duke Bluebeard's Castle.	Bela Bartok	String_quartet	False
1882	"The last part of his fifth symphony was used in Visconti's film Death in Venice, while his third symphony draws the words for its fourth movement, ""What Man Tells Me,"" from Nietzsche's Also Sprach Zarathustra.  His second symphony, whose fourth movement contains lyrics from the song ""Primal Light"" from Des Knaben Wunderhorn (Des NOB-in VUND-er-horn), is known as the ""Resurrection.""  FTP, name this Bohemian best known for his symphony #8, or ""Symphony of a Thousand."""	Gustav Mahler	Symphony_No._9_(Dvořák)	False
1883	In electrodynamics, its analog is the Christoffel voltage.  In the Navier-Stokes equations, it is propotional to omega cross v where v is the velocity and omega is the rotation.  It arises using Newton's laws in a rotating reference frame.  For ten points, name this force which is responsible for the rotation of hurricanes and the deflection of artillery shells.	Coriolis force	Coriolis_force	True
1884	It has a mass of 940 MeV per c squared and when in a free state this particle decays in about 900 seconds.  At first this beta decay appeared to violate energy conservation, leading to the proposal of the neutrino.  Consisting of two down and one up quark, the decay products are an antineutrino, an electron, and a proton.  For ten points, name this uncharged nucleon.	neutron	Neutrino	False
1885	He served as organist at the Church of the Madelaine for 20 years, and Marcel Proust studied his talents as a pianist, while Franz Liszt regarded him as the finest organist in the world.  Composer of such works as Omphale's Spinning Wheel and The Yellow Princess, his opera Samson and Delilah initially was rejected in Paris because it portrayed biblical characters.  FTP, name this composer of Danse Macabre and Carnival of the Animals.	(Charles-) Camille Saint-Sa?s (san-sahns)	Danse_Macabre	False
1886	"The author's introduction contains the ominous statement that the reader may be so corrupted by its contents that he risks sending his soul to Hell, a warning later quoted by T.S. Eliot in the Waste Land. After the publication of its second edition, the French Minister of Justice confiscated this book, because it contained poems, such as the ""Litanies of Satan,"" that the government considered blasphemous and obscene. FTP, name this collection of poems by Charles Baudelaire."	The Flowers of Evil or Les Fleurs du Mal	Charles_Baudelaire	False
1887	It can be demonstrated by representing a partical as a Gaussian wavepacket and taking its Fourier transform.  In position and wavenumber space, the packet widths are inversely correlated, so that a well-defined wavenumber implies an ill-defined position.  FTP, name this quantum mechanical concept which denies the possibility of simultaneous arbitrarily precise measurements.	Heisenberg uncertainty principle	Fourier_transform	False
1888	"The fifth of them is dedicated to Frau Hertha Koenig, the eighth is dedicated to Rudolf Kassner, and they are collectively designated the property of Princess Marie von Thurn und Taxis-Hohenlohe.  The first begins with the question ""Who, if I cried out, would hear me among the angels' hierarchies,"" while the tenth and last imagines a young man who enters the land of Lament. FTP, identify this group of poems, written between 1912 and 1922 and considered the masterwork of Ranier Maria Rilke."	the Duino Elegies	Rainer_Maria_Rilke	False
1889	Along with Adolfo Bioy Casares, he wrote detective stories under the pseudonym Bustos Domecq, published as Six Problems for Don Isidro Parodi. During his year in Spain, he joined the Ultra-ist movement, rebelling against the established Generation of '98.  His early works concern the lives of scoundrels, as in A Universal History of Infamy.  FTP, name this Argentine author of Dreamtigers and The Book of Imaginary Beings.	Jorge Luis Borges (boor-hays)	Argentina	False
1890	He loved animals so much that he kept a brood of white mice in a drawer in his first Paris studio.  The artist had a billy goat in southern France, but it lost favor after developing a penchant for butting his son Claude.  Despite this, animals were not frequently depicted in his early oeuvre, but did become more prevalent in such later works as 1944's Man with Sheep and 1950's She-Goat.  FTP, name this eventually Cubist painter, who depicted at least parts of animals in his most famous painting, 1937's Guernica.	Pablo Picasso	Guernica_(Picasso)	False
1891	"Although he only had one sexual encounter his entire life, he was unlucky enough to contract from it the syphilis that would eventually kill him in 1900.  He rejected any rational formalism or morality in favor of an emotivist approach, and identified competing modes of tragedy.  He also wrote glowing reviews of his own works in Ecce Homo, but is perhaps best known for a remark often quoted out of context from a work that was made into a successful tone poem by Richard Strauss.  FTP, identify this ""God is dead"" thinker."	Friedrich Nietzsche	Syphilis	False
1892	"He acted under the name David Baron, and as a playwright, his juxtaposition of farce and terror was dubbed ""comedy of menace.""  This can be seen as a married couple and a friend of the wife, while reminiscing, recall a liason between the husband and the wife's friend, in Old Times, or as a pair of criminals prepare a hit in The Dumbwaiter. FTP, name this British playwright of such works as The Room, No Man's Land, and The Birthday Party."	Harold Pinter	Jacques-Louis_David	False
1893	"The first American performance of one of this writer's plays was before the House Committee on Un-American Activities on October 30, 1947.  He left the United States the next day and never returned to Hollywood, where his only success had been the screenplay for ""Hangmen Also Die.""  Other anti-Nazi works include the plays ""Schweyk in the Second World War"" and ""The Resistible Rise of Arturo Ui.""  FTP, name this playwright who wrote ""The Life of Galileo,"" ""Mother Courage and Her Children,"" and ""The Threepenny Opera."""	Bertolt Brecht	United_States	False
1894	Double strands of DNA are denatured into single strands and primers are added to their 3' (three prime) ends.  To finish the process, an enzyme catalyzes new strand production.  It wasn't feasible until Kerry Mullis discovered the Themus aquaticus bacteria, which had the proper metabolic machinery and resistance to high temperatures. For ten points, what process geometrically increases the number of copies of a particular DNA sequence?	Polymerase Chain Reaction	DNA	False
1895	"""The Secret Miracle"" details a writer's last days under a Nazi death sentence.  ""The Form of the Sword"" tells of an Irish expatriate and the scar on his face.  ""Pierre Menard, Author of Don Quixote"" explains how an identical version of Quixote is superior to Cervantes' original.  ""The Babylon Lottery"" tells the history of a society ruled by a random, invisible, and god-like Company.  The writer of these works once remarked that ""not granting me the Nobel Prize has become a Scandinavian tradition since I was born--August 24, 1899.""  FTP name this Argentine."	Jorge Luis Borges	Don_Quixote	False
1896	"Born of peasant stock in the village of Hobitza, naturally he was a shepherd in the Carpathian Mountains as a youth.  In 1904 he landed in Paris where he would work the rest of his life.  With his famous comment ""No other trees can grow in the shadow of an oak,"" he refused an apprenticeship with Rodin.  He thus began creating a distinctive style, based on his feeling that ""what is real is not the external form but the essence of things.""  For 10 points, name this sculptor of Table of Silence and Bird in Space."	Constantin Brancusi	Auguste_Rodin	False
1897	Belgian biochemist Christian de Duve identified them in 1955 with the aid of an electron microscope.  Originating as buds on the trans-Golgi network, they have an acidic interior which can destroy other worn out organelles and cellular invaders.  For 10 points, name these organelles which take in extracellular molecules by fusing with endosomes.	lysosomes	Golgi_apparatus	False
1898	While a member of Parliament, he composed 'Bermuda' in honor of colonial power. He also composed a 'Horatian Ode' in honor of Oliver Cromwell.  A metaphysical poet, he is best remembered for 'The Garden' and for 'To His Coy Mistress.'  FTP, name him.	Andrew Marvell	Oliver_Cromwell	False
1899	"This philosopher completed his doctorate at Harvard in 1932, becoming a full professor there in 1948.  His argument that experience counts for or against our entire body of beliefs in a holistic manner, and that little that is systematic can be said about the meanings of particular sentences, was expounded in 1953's ""Two Dogmas of Empiricism.""  This lead to his most famous doctrine, the indeterminacy of translation, which holds that there are no objective facts about which words and sentences have the same meanings, put forth in 1960's Word and Object.  For 10 points, who is this most influential post-World War II American philosopher, author of Pursuit of Truth and The Roots of Reference?"	Willard Van Orman Quine	Truth	False
1900	In 1791, this novel was published in a complete version of 120 chapters, but the final 40 may have been forged by the publishers. It tells specifically of a young poet and his romances with an assortment of cousins and maid servants, including Daiyu and his eventual wife Baochai, and in general recounts the decline of the Chia family.  FTP, name this novel concerning Paoyu by Ts'ao Hsueh-ch'in, generally regarded as the greatest work of traditional Chinese narrative.	The Dream of the Red Chamber (or The Story of the Stone, or A Dream of Red Mansions, or Hung lou meng, or Shih-t'ou chi)	Dream_of_the_Red_Chamber	True
1901	It is said that it was so inspiring that Eugene Delacroix repainted his Massacre of Chios upon seeing it.  This painting was first exhibited at London's Royal Academy in 1820, and at the Paris Salon of 1824 it was awarded a gold medal and caused great excitement among French painters. In it, two dogs watch as two men try to coax a team of three red-yoked horses to pull an unladen wagon through a ford in a river.  For 10 points, what is this painting, which had such an influence on Barbizon School painters, by John Constable?	The Haywain	Eugène_Delacroix	False
1902	For the quantum-mechanical version, energy eigenfunctions are proportional to Hermite polynomials and the ground state energy is one-half h-bar times the angular frequency.  The classical version is simply a system with a restoring force obeying Hooke's law.  Examples of what object, for ten points, include a mass on a spring and a small-amplitude pendulum.	simple harmonic oscillator	Pendulum	False
1903	"Most famously measured by the Pauling scale, it is defined as the ""power of an atom when in a molecule to attract electrons to itself"".  In practice it is used to find which molecule will be a better electron donor, or whether ionic or covalent bonds will form.  For ten points, name this quantity for which Pauling arbitrarily set fluorine equal to 4."	electronegativity	Linus_Pauling	False
1904	"This philosopher's first book was published in 1922 and attracted much attention for its theory that language is made of elementary propositions, that if all true elementary propositions were listed the world would be completely described, and that religion, ethics and aesthetics do not consist of such propositions and are therefore gibberish. In later years he repudiated these ideas, expounding his theories of ""language games"" and ""word families"" in 1953's Philosophical Investigations. FTP, name this author of the Blue and Brown Books and Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus."	Ludwig Wittgenstein	Tractatus_Logico-Philosophicus	False
1905	In static fluids, it forms the diagonal components of the stress tensor.  For black-body radiation it is one-third of the energy density.  In ideal gases, it is the product of Boltzman's constant, the number density, and the temperature. For ten points, name this physical quantity, measured in units of Pascals and pounds per square inch.	pressure	Density	False
1906	He liked to concentrate on mischievous figures with his symphonic poems as evidenced by Vodnik, or The Water Goblin, and Polednice, or The Noonday Witch. His friendship with Fritz Simrock was beneficial, for Simrock's firm gained him worldwide attention with the publication of his Moravian Duets. Though he was especially proud of his choral works, only the Stabat Mater and Te Deum continue to be regularly performed today. His best known work might have been influenced by his time spent in Iowa and possibly based on Negro spirituals. FTP, identify this composer of Humoresque, Slavonic Dances, and Symphony No. 9, or From the New World.	Antonin (Leopold) Dvorak	Symphony_No._9_(Dvořák)	False
1907	The title character is the Duke of Vienna, who is murdered when his treacherous nephew Lucianus pours poison into his ears.  Afterwards, Lucianus seduces and marries the title character's widow, Baptista, but we only see this part of the drama in its dumb-show rehearsal, since the royal command performance is abruptly halted during the murder scene.  For 10 points name this Shakespearean play-within-a-play, which Hamlet uses to test the guilt of his uncle Claudius.	The Murder of Gonzago (grudgingly accept The Mouse-Trap)	Hamlet	False
1908	A powerful oxidizer, it deodorizes water and kills germs at concentrations of 1 part per million.  At even lower concentrations in air it causes coughing, chest pain, and eye irritation. Experiments show its molecular structure exhibits resonance, as the oxygen-oxygen bonds are both identical. For ten points, identify this poisonous blue gas, whose molecules each contain three atoms.	ozone	Oxygen	False
1909	It is composed of a central ribose group, a purine, and a trailing chain of three ion groups.  Because the change in free energy caused by its hydrolysis at a pH of 7 is only about 8 kilocalories per mole, a healthy eukaryotic cell uses approximately one million of this type of molecule every minute. FTP, name the compound whose exergonic hydrolysis is the major source of energy in cellular reactions.	ATP (or adenosine triphosphate)	Activation_energy	False
1910	Closely related to the Lucas numbers, it can be found in the sums of the shallow diagonals of Pascal's triangle.  One-half of the sum of one and the square root of five, also called the golden mean, is the limiting ratio of terms of, for ten points, what sequence first derived in 13th century Italy by considering the reproduction of immortal rabbits.	Fibonacci sequence or numbers	Blaise_Pascal	False
1911	He was born in 1877 on the edge of the Black Forest into a missionary household.  He was expected to enter the ministry, but an early religious crisis drove him into writing.  His first two novels, Peter Camenzied and Urteum Rad, were published in 1904 and 1906 respectively, but it was not until 1919 that he gained international fame with his publication of Demian.  For 10 points name this German-born author of Magister Ludi and Steppenwolf.	Herman Hesse	Steppenwolf_(novel)	False
1912	The outer membrane is dotted with the protein porin, while ubiquinone and cytochrome oxidase complex line the folded inner membrane.  The double membrane is explained by the endosymbiont hypothesis which also helps explain the presence of self-replicating DNA, similar to that found in bacteria.  For ten points, name the cellular organelle responsible for aerobic respiration.	mitochondrion or mitochondria	Cell_membrane	False
1913	Similar to the Stark effect, calculations in the weak-field limit yield Lande's formula for the energy shift.  The strong field, or Paschen-Back limit, gives an energy shift proportional to the Bohr magneton and the spin quantum numbers.  For ten points, what effect describes the splitting of spectral lines under the influence of a magnetic field.	Zeeman effect	Stark_effect	False
1914	"It originated as a 1947 short story entitled ""Battle Royal,"" which was later used as the first chapter of the expanded novel.  In it, the nameless title character flees the South for New York City and joins a radical revolutionary society known as the Brotherhood, only to discover that the Brotherhood is just as racist as the rest of the world.  In the end, he retreats into a hole in the ground and disappears.  For 10 points name this work by Ralph Ellison."	Invisible Man	Invisible_Man	True
1915	"His cult began at Thinis and Lycopolis, and he was also worshipped as Upuaut, the rabbit-headed ""Opener of the Ways.""  His more common name comes from the words for ""golden dawn"", and it was he who protected people against Ammut, the ""devourer.""  The keeper of poisons and medicines, this son of Nephthys performs the ""Opening of the Mouth"" ceremony and weighs the feather of Maat against a human heart. FTP name this patron of embalming, the jackal-headed god who performs the funeral of Osiris."	Anubis	Osiris	False
1916	He had planned a career in physics and math, but while recuperating from an illness changed plans after reading The Golden Bough.  He saw cultural institutions as fulfilling three basic types of needs -- biological, instrumental, and integrative.  His breakthrough work was serendipitous; the outbreak of World War I left him stranded for three years in the Trobriand Islands, from which experience he wrote Argonauts of the Western Pacific and Coral Gardens and Their Magic.  FTP name this Polish-born anthopologist.	Bronislaw Malinowski	The_Golden_Bough	False
1917	Joseph Taylor and Russell Hulse used the signals from one of these objects to test Einstein's prediction of gravitational radiation.  As in the nearby example in Vela, they are formed when a supernova leaves a rapidly-spinning magnetic object which then produces regular bursts of radio emission at Earth.  For ten points, name this type of neutron star discovered in 1967 by Anthony Hewish and Jocelyn Bell.	(binary) pulsar (prompt on neutron star)	Neutron_star	True
1918	This nation contains the once nominally independent Bantustans of Transkei, Venda, Ciskei, and Bophuthatswana. This nation's currency is the Rand, and its largest city lies in Gauteng province. Cape Agulhas is the southernmost point in this nation. The (*) Orange river defines part of its border with Namibia. Two of its capitals are Pretoria and Bloemfontein. For 10 points, name this country whose largest cities are Cape Town and Johannesburg, which hosted the 2010 World Cup.	{South Africa}	Namibia	False
1919	One part of this modern day country agreed to outlaw slavery as part of the Sand River Convention. Leander Starr Jameson led a raid in this country, which was ruled by the National Party from 1948 until 1994. The Sharpeville Massacre resulted from protests against this country's pass laws, which were also a factor in an uprising in its Soweto Township. For 20 points, name this country which has been led by the ANC since 1993.	Republic of {South Africa} [or {RSA}]	Jameson_Raid	False
1920	One character in this novel is upset that his riding horse Frou-Frou must be killed after a riding accident. A marriage in this novel is threatened when the husband's brother Nikolai is revealed to be dying of consumption, though that couple, Kitty and Levin, had earlier hit a roadblock when Kitty refused to accept Levin as her suitor. The title character engages in a lengthy affair with Count (*) Vronsky before committing suicide near this work's end. For 10 points, name this novel by Leo Tolstoy.	{Anna Karenina}	Anna_Karenina	True
1921	"In this novel, the titular character has a son Seryozha and a daughter out of wedlock, Anna. Dolly's sister Kitty eventually marries Konstantine Levin in this novel which begins ""Happy families are all alike; every unhappy family is unhappy in its own way."" The protagonist's husband refuses to consider a divorce because it will soil their reputation but that doesn't stop that character from meeting Count Vronsky. In the end, she feels that Vronsky has lost interest in her and throws herself in front of a train. For 10 points, name this book written by Leo Tolstoy."	Anna Karenina	Anna_Karenina	True
1922	This novel opens by describing the marital trouble of Dolly and Stephan, the latter of whom has slept with his French governess. One character in this novel complains about being compared to his famous half-brother Koznyshev. That character, Konstantin Levin, marries Kitty and the title character suspects Count Vronsky of having affairs with other women.  For ten points, name this Tolstoy novel whose title character throws herself under a train.	Anna Karenina	Anna_Karenina	True
1923	"One character in this work is forgiven by his wife for an affair with a governess before beginning one with a ballerina.  Another character in this work is a sickly, thin man who eventually starts dating a reformed prostitute, Marya Nikolaevna.  In addition to Stiva and Nikolai, another character in this work declares, ""I shall still be as unable to understand with my reason why I pray, and I shall still go on praying"" at the end of the work, though he had earlier failed in his courtship of Ekaterina Shcherbatskaya.  Another character in this work rejects Ekaterina before having an affair with the title character and moving to St. Petersburg.  For 10 points—name this work in which Levin marries Kitty and the title lover of Count Vronsky throws herself under a train, a novel by Leo Tolstoy."	Anna Karenina	Anna_Karenina	True
1924	The protagonist of this novel meets characters like Sappho Sholtz and Madame Stahl, who never leaves her bed in fear of showing her legs. One character in this novel is injured when his horse Frou- Frou trips while racing Gladiator. The protagonist of this novel has a son named Seryozha and a brother named Stepan Oblansky. A subplot in this novel concerns the sister of the title character, Kitty, who marries Konstantin Levin. For 10 points, name this novel about a woman who shacks up with Count Vronsky and throws herself in front of a train, written by Leo Tolstoy.	Anna Karenina	Anna_Karenina	True
1925	"One character in this book admonishes that, even after thirty years of exile in the mountains, you will find that ""you do not know anything, you are nothing, and there is no punishment so terrible...that the corrupted flesh cannot tolerate it."" After a bolt of lightning splits a tree in two, the main characters meet that man, the hermit Father Aubry, and his trusty dog. It's earlier revealed that the primary female is not the daughter of Simaghan, and instead her father is the elderly Lopez. Her companion is freed as he's about to be burnt at the stake during the Feast of the Dead. A painting of the burial scene in this book was created by Anne-Louis Girodet. The frame story of the book sees Chactas, the patriarch of the Natchez tribe, relate his adventure to René, who became the title character of the author's subsequent book. Subtitled as the ""Loves of Two Savages in the Desert,"" FTP, name this Romantic novella by the French writer Chateaubriand, titled for its central character, an Indian maiden."	{Atala}	Louis_XIV	False
1926	"One artist from this country shows a red-haired woman staring at the viewer in his canvas I Lock The Door Upon Myself, which he hung in his self-created villa that he dubbed the ""Temple of the Self."" That artist showed a leopard with a female head crouching on rock pressing its head against the head of a half naked man in his painting The Caresses. Another artist of this nation showed his sister seated at a table loaded with flowers and wine bottles - the rejection of that canvas, The Oyster-Eater, sparked the formation of an artistic group in this country backed by Octave Maus. That group included the aforementioned Fernand Khnopff and took its name from the number of artists invited each year to exhibitions. That group, ""The Twenty,"" later turned on its native son and refused to depict his canvas showing a Colman's mustard sign and the banner ""Vive Le Sociale."" FTP, name this home to the painter of Christ's Entry into Bruseels, as well as the painter of The Treachery of Images and The Son of Man."	{Belgium}	Las_Meninas	False
1927	"An American author of this descent wrote about Agu, who's forced into combat by the evil Commandant and killed by Rambo in Beasts of No Nation. Another young author born in this country wrote of a protagonist who uses the help of TillyTilly to defeat her mean cousin Dulcie. Besides The Icarus Girl, another author born here told a ""Hunter's Saga"" in his best-known novel Forest of a Thousand Demons. That novel was translated from this country's native language by another author of this nation, who wrote the radio play A Scourge of Hyacinths, which was transmitted by the BBC in 1991. He also wrote about a man who says ""there are eggs and there are eggs"", and preaches sermons on public beaches because he doesn't have a church - that guy is the hypocrite Brother Jero. The missionary Captain Winterbottom appoints a character who's pressured to call the feast of the new yam in another book. FTP, name this African country, which produced novels like Sozaboy and Arrow of God."	{Nigeria}	Kenneth_Arrow	False
1928	"This thinker derisively claimed ""the libertarian is the only believer in causation"" at the opening of his early essay ""The Ego as Cause."" In other works, he wrote a chapter entitled ""The United States, Incorporated"" which imagined corporate takeover, and wrote about the ""free play of intelligence."" He advocated making ""nature and the science of nature the willing servants of human good,"" and stated that communication is the key to turning the ""Great Society"" into a ""Great Community."" His namesake Commission included men like Carleton Beals and investigated Soviet charges against Leon Trotsky. This author of ""What Humanism Means to Me"" wrote the previous book to rebut the claims of Walter Lippmann, who held that ""the public"" was a phantom. FTP, name this author of The Quest for Certainty, an American philosopher who wrote all kinds of works on democracy and education."	John {Dewey}	Leon_Trotsky	False
1929	"One work by this man quotes a Romance from a Heinrich Marschner opera based on Ivanhoe in its twelfth and final variation. That work begins with a C-sharp minor main theme taken from a flute piece by a composer whose illegitimate daughter was this man's first fiancee. Another piano work by this man is called ""Colorful Leaves,"" and provided the theme for Brahms's Variations Opus 9. This man's own Opus 9 is a set of ""cute scenes on four notes,"" which opens with a ""preamble"" featuring alternating chords in dotted rhythms. One part of that work is meant to be read but not played, and is called ""Sphinxes."" That work ends with the ""March of the Davidsbündler against the Philistines,"" and like the aforementioned Symphonic Etudes, it also represents the characters of Eusebius and Florestan. FTP, name this composer who quoted his own work Papillons in Carnaval."	Robert {Schumann}	Johannes_Brahms	False
1930	"In one work in this collection, the author remembers that ""behind my father's cannery works, I used to see rail-squatters ranged in nomad raillery."" A study of this work by L.S. Dembo is titled for the author's ""Sanskrit Charge."" The opening piece refers to ""harp and altar, of the fury fused"" before asking ""How could mere toil align thy choiring strings?"" The question ""Whose head is swinging from the swollen strap?"" in this work is prompted by a ride from Columbus Circle. A river ""tortured with history"" is described in the section on ""Powhatan's Daughter,"" while San Luis de Angel and Juan Perez are addressed by Columbus in ""Ave Maria."" Composed of fifteen sections including Cape Hatteras, Quaker Hill and The Tunnel, FTP, name this long poem which opens with an invocation to a Brooklyn landmark, a work by Hart Crane."	The {Bridge}	Hart_Crane	False
1931	A 1971 film set in this nation begins with a father taking his teenage daughter and young son out for a picnic - he then begins firing a pistol at them, and when they run away, he torches his car and shoots himself. That film had five minutes cut from its American release since its female lead, Jenny Agutter, was 16 while shown swimming nude. A 1975 film set here sees four girls go missing - Emily is found a week later, unable to recall anything that happened, except that Miss McCraw walked away in her underwear. The director of that film, a native of this country, also created a film in which the amateur sprinters Archy and Frank enlist in this nation's army, though the former gets killed running toward German machine-gun nests at the title battle. FTP, name this country which provided the setting for Picnic at Hanging Rock and Walkabout, as well as the Peter Weir film Gallipoli.	{Australia}	Battleship_Potemkin	False
1932	"A persona in this work exclaims that he's been unable to ""unravel the Master-Knot of human fate"" in line 124, leading him to exhort his companion to be ""jocund with the fruitful grape/[rather] Than sadden after none, or bitter, fruit."" In its collected form, this work begins on the morning of New Year's Day, with that persona imploring a companion to awaken and accompany him to the garden. In the 59th part, the Kuza-Nama, a collection of the title items have a discussion which provides an allegory of creation, with one wondering, ""Who is the potter, and who the pot?"" Earlier, the speaker frets that ""the bird is on the wing,"" leading him to urge his companion to again ""fill the cup, and in the fire of spring/The winter garment of repentance fling."" FTP, name this collection of verses translated into English by Edward FitzGerald."	{Rubaiyat} of {Omar Khayyam}	F._Scott_Fitzgerald	False
1933	The premiere of one work by this man was marred by the last two systems of the score having been copied as only one, and the orchestra playing it that way. Despite that mishap, that triptych for orchestra by this man was later performed as a ballet called Ode. Another ballet by this man was based on an outline developed by Lincoln Kirstein, featured twelve dancers, twelve-tone music based on sixteenth-century dances, and was paired with the pieces Apollo and Orpheus in a set of three Greek ballets. Besides that work, Agon, this man's ballets include one danced to the accompaniment of four pianos, percussion, and mixed chorus, depicting a wedding. The dances of the coachmen and wet-nurses occur in another work, in which this man prominently used a chord consisting of two major triads a tritone apart. FTP, name this composer of Petrushka.	Igor {Stravinsky}	The_Rite_of_Spring	False
1934	One process that involves these entities is Moller scattering, and the Davisson-Germer experiment used these entities and proved that they exhibit wave-particle duality. Certain movements of these particles are classified in Lyman and Balmer series, and those movements are transitions of these particles from one energy level of an atom to another. For 10 points, identify these subatomic particles that orbit an atom's nucleus and have a charge opposite that of a proton.	{electron}	Davisson–Germer_experiment	False
1935	One measurement for this property utilizes the reciprocal of atomic volume and can be used to calculate molecular geometries, which is named after Sanderson. Another measurement of this property named after Allen uses the average energy of the valence electrons, and on that scale Neon has the highest value. The most common scale used to measure this property increases as one goes up and to the right of the periodic table and is named after Linus Pauling. For 10 points, name this property of atoms that describes the ability for an element to attract electrons.	{electronegativity}	Linus_Pauling	False
1936	"These particles are solvated in strongly reducing solutions, such as that used in the Birch reduction. The charge of these particles was measured in an experiment that balanced the gravitational and buoyant forces acting on drops of (*) oil against their interaction with an electric field; that experiment was conducted by Robert Millikan. For 10 points, name these negatively charged first-generation leptons discovered by J. J. Thomson, which are found in the atom in a ""cloud"" around the nucleus."	{electrons}	Electric_charge	False
1937	This quantity for a compound is the geometric mean of this quantity for each atom in that compound according to its principle of equalization. Slater's rules and the covalent radius of an atom are used to calculate this quantity according to the Allred-Rochow scale. This quantity can be calculated by taking the arithmatic mean of the first (*) ionization energy and electron affinity. Scales for this quantity, which increases with movement up and to the right on the periodic table, are named for Pauling and Mulliken. For 10 points, name this quantity that measures the affinity of an atom for electrons.	{electronegativity}	Electronegativity	True
1938	The Auger effect results in the emission of one of these entities, whose magnetic dipole moment is the Bohr magneton. An exciton is composed of a hole and one of these particles, whose deceleration causes Bremsstrahlung. Captured into the nucleus in one form of radioactive decay, they are emitted along with protons and antineutrinos in beta-minus decay. Their charge was measured by Millikan in the oil drop experiment, and their antiparticle is the positron. For 10 points, name these negatively charged elementary particles.	{electrons} <LC>	Positron	False
1939	"One of the most extensive maps of this phenomenon has been produced using Zeeman interferometry by the Michelson Doppler Imager aboard the SOHO mission, while another method for mapping it relies on the Hanle effect. Some distance from its origin, this phenomenon divides into ""open"" and ""closed"" regions, and it undergoes large-scale adjustments on a timescale of days as a result of the formation and dissipation of supergranules. This phenomenon is transported by a meridional flow and by differential rotation, and as this phenomenon is transported outward from its origin by wind it forms a structure known as a Parker spiral. This is responsible for the dark color of objects whose polarity undergoes shifts in 11-year cycles. FTP, identify this phenomenon, a field induced by the dynamo process inside the star which we orbit."	{solar magnetic} field [or the {magnetic} field of the {sun}, prompt on any sort of partial answer]	Doppler_effect	False
1940	One hypothesized variety of these particles with a an X charge of five was proposed to explain the results of the LSND experiment, while Bahcall and Pinsonneault described several models for creating these particles. One property of these particles can be explained by positing both a Dirac and a Majorana term, and then noting that the left handed and right handed eigenstates can end up with widely different values. Wolfenstein noted the effects of forward scattering on processes involving these particles like neutral current-caused flavor changing, leading to MSW effect. One variety of this particle was discovered after the emission of pi-mesons in an experiment run by Lederman, Schwartz, and Steinberger, each variety's interconversion is explained by their flavor oscillation. FTP, name this lepton, which comes in electron, muon, and tau varieties.	{Neutrino}	Electron	False
1941	"One of this thinker's essays concludes that art-criticism is the key to understanding Plato and Hegel, and consists mostly of commentary on Shakespeare's use of costumes to achieve ""illusion."" Another essay concludes that ""the new Individualism is the new Hellenism."" This author of The Truth in Masks and The Soul of Man Under Socialism used the character Gilbert to laud contemplation as necessary for creation of great art. In another work, a shared love of cigarettes and Nature leads to veneration of ""art for art's sake"" by Cyril and Vivian. He noted the immortality of Rosencrantz and Guildenstern in a work concluding that Nature will ""with bitter herbs make me whole."" That work references this author's dialogues The Critic as Artist and The Decay of Lying. A letter to his former lover Alfred Douglas is probably the best known piece of non-fiction by, FTP, what Irishman who wrote De Profundis during his stay at Reading Gaol?"	Oscar {Wilde}	Rosencrantz_and_Guildenstern_Are_Dead	False
1942	This painting may have gained its name from a quote by Leonardo Loredon - that theory is supported by a faint emblem of the Carrara family which appears on a tower in the background, which supports the idea that the canvas may allude to the recent Battle of Agnadello. A small white stork perches on the roof of one of a line of buildings in the background. Commissioned by Gabriel Vendramin, it is often dated between its artist's Castelfranco Madonna and his Three Philosophers. The bottom left shows a man dressed in red with stockings up to his knee, holding a halberd in his right hand. Between the two adults lies a small body of water, spanned in the background by a four-pillared bridge. The underpainting shows that the man was originally a nude bathing woman. FTP, name this early 16th century work by Giorgione, named after the storm that appears to be brewing in it.	{The Tempest} (or {La Tempesta} )	Giorgione	False
1943	"In a notable essay, Nabokov dubbed the protagonist of this novel ""the eavesdropper"" due to a dinner scene when he hears a woman say she asked a Russian duke, ""Sir, I hear you would like to have Tolstoy murdered?'"" In one scene, the hostess of a party pretends to be asleep when a guest tries to apologize for breaking a vase of apple blossoms. In the last scene, a character visits old friends carrying a photo for a book he's writing on the Knights of Malta, but when he reveals that he's terminally ill, they delay so the Duchess can change into red shoes. After a performance of Phedre by the actress Berma, the protagonist stalks the Duchess Oriane. In this novel, Bloch embarrasses himself by arguing about the Dreyfus Affair at a matinee organized by Madame de Villeparisis. It begins with the narrator moving away from Balbec after recovering from his feelings for Albertine in the earlier book Within a Budding Grove. This novel is in turn followed by Cities of the Plain, and takes its name from the aristocratic family contrasted with the Swanns. FTP, name this third novel in Remembrance of Things Past."	The {Guermantes Way} (or Le {Côté} de {Guermantes}; prompt on {Remembrance} of Things {Past} or À la	In_Search_of_Lost_Time	False
1944	"This composer commented that he wanted to use the title ""Divertissement"" for a concerto because he thinks that concertos are ""written not ‘for' but ‘against' the piano."" That piece's ""Allegramente"" movement features a ""blues"" theme and opens with a whip crack. This composer wrote a piano work that begins with the cellos and double basses playing the background for an unusual contrabassoon solo. He uses a G-sharp arpeggio to depict ascending waves in the section "" A Boat on the Ocean"" of a piano work whose other parts include ""The Valley of Bells"" and ""Night-Moths."" This composer of Piano Concerto in G uses a recurring B-flat ostinato to represent tolling bells surrounding the corpse of a hanged man in a section called ""Le Gibet."" This composer of Miroirs was commissioned by Paul Wittgenstein to write a piano concerto for the left hand, and he depicted an evil dwarf in a section titled ""Scarbo"" designed to be more difficult than Islamey. FTP, name this composer of Gaspard de la nuit who also wrote a ""Pavane for a dead princess."""	Maurice {Ravel}	Piano_concerto	False
1945	One form of this element is usually coordinated with two His and one Asp or Glu protein residues in enzymes that either require an alpha-keta acid as cosubstrate, or degrade aromatic molecules and catalyze oxidative ring cleavage. The synthesis of a precursor to penicillin is catalyzed by an enzyme of the oxidoreductase family and its active site contains this element. That isopenicillin synthase uses oxygen that binds to this. A protein that regulates this metal in humans is rich in beta sheets and HAMP, and is the gene that encodes that protein, which is generally 25 amino acids long. In addition to being regulated by hepcidin, this metal is found with sulfur in proteins such as cytochrome c, which are found in the electron transport chain of the mitochondria. FTP, name this element that is found in the center of a porphyrin ring in heme.	{iron} [accept {Fe} ]	Protein_folding	False
1946	"This country's space agency, founded in 1961, is named SUPARCO. Prime Minister Junejo of this country was dismissed from his job for signing the Geneva Accords. This country's chief executive was picked by an electoral college of 80,000 people during a period called ""Basic Democracy"". Ordinance XX [twenty] was a law oppressing this country's largest religious minority, the Ahmadis, who are not allowed to call themselves muslims in this country. In response to the Awami League, this country launched Operation Searchlight. Dictators of this country have included Muhammad Zia in the 80's, Ayub Khan in the 50's and 60's, and most recently a general from the Kargil War, Pervez Musharraf. For 10 points, name this neighbor of India, with capital Islamabad."	Pakistan	Muhammad	False
1947	"This nation saw the rise of the ""Clean Hands"" movement in the 1990s in opposition to a system of government corruption nicknamed Tangentopoli as well as to the increasing power of the Northern League. That movement saw the first rise of a figure who promoted the ""Pole of Freedoms"" coalition. This nation was home to a Masonic Lodge known as ""P2,"" which may have been involved in a CIA stay-behind operation in this country known as Operation Gladio. That operation may have contributed to a period of unrest in this nation which saw the Red Brigades capture and kill the head of its Christian Democrat party. For 10 points, name this nation which saw Aldo Moro killed during the Years of Lead."	Republic of {Italy}	Red	False
1948	One king of this nation was opposed by the Anjala Cospiracy, which sought to avoid a repeat of this nation's occupation in the Lesser Wrath. That king of this nation was granted total power over foreign by the Act of Union and Security, which resulted in his assassination. This nation was home to a supposed lover of Marie Antoinette, Axel Fersen, who was killed after the overthrow of this nation's ruler Gustav IV. This nation was unified with its western neighbor in the Convention of Moss, which enforced the terms of the Treaty of Kiel. For 10 points, name this kingdom which saw Jean Bernadotte, one of Napoleon's marshals, come to power and force a union with Norway.	Kingdom of {Sweden}	Norway	False
1949	Arthur Hoffman was forced to resign from this country's government after Robert Grimm claimed he was acting on this country's authority. This country brokered an agreement concerning where artillery fire could be aimed around the Stelvino Pass. The deliverer of the Rütlirapport speech, Henry Guisan designed its fortification systems, including the Fortress Saint-Maurice and an initial line along its northern border. One plan for invading this country was named Operation Tannenbaum, and this country was accused of aiding Germany by continuing to trade jewel sights and gold during World War II. Defensive plans for this country included falling back to the St. Gotthard pass and a massive mobilization in 1940 to deter Nazi invasion. For 10 points, identify this country that, nonetheless, remained neutral during both World Wars.	{Switzerland}	Germany	False
1950	Max Uhle was responsible for finding the remains of three cultures at one site in this country, the oldest culture of which was given its name by Julio Tello. One ancient culture located in this modern country had a namesake Monumental style of ceramics that included designs with natural settings. That culture in this country was also responsible for creating a series of images called Lines near Palpa that are well-known geoglyphs. The oldest depiction of the Staff God was found in this country's Norte Chico region, and this country was also home to the Moche, Chimu, and Nazca. For 10 points, name this modern South American country that holds the one-time capital of an empire started by Manco Capac at Cuzco.	Republic of {Peru} (or Republica del {Peru})	South_Africa	False
1951	"An anthology of Lithuanian folksongs by Anton Juszkiewicz (YUSH-keh-vich) is thought to be the source for many melodies in this composition, whose original sets were designed by Nicholas Roerich. It opens with a bassoon solo and includes such scenes as ""Ritual of Abduction"" and ""Sacrificial Dance."" Subtitled ""Pictures from Pagan Russia"" and opening with the section ""Adoration of the Earth,"" this ballet is known for its extensive use of dissonance and polytonality, leading to a riot at its 1913 premiere. For 10 points, name this ballet by Igor Stravinsky."	The {Rite} of {Spring} [or Le {sacre du printemps} or {Vesna svyashchennaya} ]	The_Rite_of_Spring	True
1952	This organ produces a tetrapeptide, which bonds to macrophage receptors, and is known as tuftsin. The sinusoids of one portion of this organ contain blood and a reserve of monocytes which can be utilized in the case of hemorrhagic shock. The other major portion of this organ contains Malphigian corpsules and synthesizes antibodies. Located in the abdominal region and consisting of red and white pulp, for 10 points, name this organ part of the lymphatic system that helps to filter and clean the blood.	{spleen}	Spleen	True
1953	"This author wrote about the golf caddy Dexter Green's unrequited love for Judy Jones in ""Winter Dreams."" He wrote of Charlie Wales's separation from his daughter Honoria as he is haunted by his past excesses in ""Babylon Revisited."" He wrote about the Princeton student Amory Blaine in his debut novel This Side of Paradise, and partially based the character of Daisy Buchanan in another novel on his own wife Zelda. For 10 points, name this author who included Nick Carraway as the narrator of The Great Gatsby."	Francis Scott Key {Fitzgerald}	The_Great_Gatsby	False
1954	"This psychologist planted letters in public places in his ""lost letter"" experiment. He conducted an experiment in which participants where asked to forward letters to acquaintances. That experiment, the small world experiment, popularized the idea of ""six degrees of separation."" In his most famous experiment, an actor claiming to have a heart condition was quizzed on word pairs. For 10 points, name this psychologist who tested obedience by asking participants to administer electric shocks."	Stanley {Milgram}	Milgram_experiment	False
1955	"One aria in this opera ends with the tenor singing ""Vincerò! Vincerò!,"" or ""I will win! I will win!"" Its title character sings the aria ""In questa reggia"" to explain the significance of three riddles she asks to potential suitors, including a man known as the Unknown Prince. That character, who is advised against pursuing the titular princess by the ministers Ping, Pang, and Pong, is actually named Calàf and sings the aria ""Nessun dorma"" in this opera's third act. For 10 points, name this opera about the title Chinese princess, written by Giacomo Puccini."	{Turandot} ({tur}-an-{DOT})	Turandot	True
1956	"In Venice, this character meets Pococurante, who grieves him by insulting Homer and Milton. In El Dorado, this character obtains red sheep laden with gold. This character is expelled from the castle of Baron Thunder-Ten-Tronckh for kissing Cunegonde. He is taught by Dr. Pangloss, a parody of Leibniz, who teaches that this is the ""best of all possible worlds."" For 10 points, name this title character of a satire by Voltaire."	{Candide}	Gottfried_Wilhelm_Leibniz	False
1957	"In one work by this poet, the narrator describes being an ""inebriate of air"" and a ""debauchee of dew"" because they ""taste a liquor never brewed."" Another poem by this writer describes a ""blue, uncertain, stumbling"" sound that occurred at the title moment in ""I heard a fly buzz when I died."" This poet also wrote a poem about horses whose ""heads were toward eternity"" during a carriage ride with Immortality and another figure. For 10 points, name this writer of ""Because I could not stop for Death,"" a reclusive and prolific female poet who lived in Massachusetts."	Emily Elizabeth {Dickinson}	Elegy_Written_in_a_Country_Churchyard	False
1958	"This country lost much of its territory in the Treaty of Trianon. Members of this country's Arpad dynasty include Stephen I, its first king. During this nation's communist period, it was led by János Kádár (YA-nos KA-dar). This country saw reforms that led to ""Goulash Communism."" Through the Ausgleich (OWS-glaik) of 1867, this country spent the later half of the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries as part of a dual monarchy with Austria. For 10 points, name this country with capital at Budapest."	Republic of {Hungary} [or {Magyarorszag} ; or {Magyar Koztarsasag} ]	Austria	False
1959	This man wrote a novel in which Harry Morgan uses his boat to smuggle liquor and illegal immigrants, To Have and Have Not. In one of his novels, Pablo is the husband of Pilar, the leader of a guerilla group that Robert Jordan is working with. That novel takes place during the Spanish Civil War. Another novel by this author is narrated by Jake Barnes, an American expatriate in Paris. He also wrote about the struggles of the fisherman Santiago. For 10 points, name this author of The Sun Also Rises and The Old Man and the Sea.	Ernest Miller {Hemingway}	For_Whom_the_Bell_Tolls	False
1960	By the terms of a treaty signed in this city, Stanislaw Leszczynski accepted the rule of Augustus III, who had been the Duke of Saxony; that treaty ended the War of the Polish Succession. Wilhelm von Roggendorf defended this city from an attack that included large numbers of ineffective Sipahi cavalry, while Jan III Sobieski aided in the 1683 defense of this city from an assault ordered by Mehmet IV. Twice besieged by the Ottomans, for 10 points, name this European city, the capital of Austria.	{Vienna}	Treaty_of_Versailles	False
1961	"One policy instituted by this leader was the Rectification Movement. This leader's wife was a member of a group known as the Gang of Four. One event that marked this ruler's ascent to power was a military action in which this leader's forces relocated away from those of the Kuomintang (KWO-min-tang). That action was known as the Long March. Opposed to the Chinese Nationalist Party led by Chiang Kai-Shek, for 10 points, name this first leader of Communist China whose quotations were collected in the ""Little Red Book."""	{Mao} Zedong [or {Mao} Tse-tung]	Chiang_Kai-shek	False
1962	The Keo Nua Pass in this country is one of the few passes through the Annamese Cordillera (CORE-dee-YARE-uh). This nation's capital includes the Temple of the Trung Sisters and is located on the Red River. The imperial citadel of Dai Noi is found in this country's onetime capital Hue (hway). For 10 points, name this Southeast Asian nation that was reunified in 1975 after a bloody war between the communist north and U.S.-aligned south.	{Vietnam}	Nation_of_Islam	False
1963	"One of this man's works concerns a Burger Chef owner who mistakes a science-fiction book for the literal truth, while foma and granfaloons are elements of Bokononism in a work of his where ice-nine destroys the world. Another work by this author of Breakfast of Champions centers on an optometrist from Ilium, New York who experiences the firebombing of Dresden in World War II and becomes ""unstuck in time."" For 10 points, name this author of Cat's Cradle who told the story of Billy Pilgrim in Slaughterhouse-Five."	Kurt {Vonnegut}	Slaughterhouse-Five	False
1964	One section of this work describes a shepherd named Gyges who commits unethical acts after he discovers a ring that grants him invisibility. This work describes the Sun as being the child of the Form of the Good in detailing an ideal society ruled by philosopher kings. One part of this work describes a group of men who watch the shadows a fire casts on a wall and mistakes them for reality. That section is known as the Allegory of the Cave. For 10 points, name this philosophical by Plato that describes the city state.	The {Republic}	Republic_(Plato)	False
1965	One play by this author opens as a character sits upon a stone and is ordered by villagers to leave, as he trespasses on lands sacred to the Furies. In another play, the chorus proclaims that punishment brings wisdom after the suicides of Eurydice (you-RID-uh-see) and Haemon (HIGH-mahn). That play is about Ismene's (is-MEH-nay) sister, who buries one of her brothers. This author wrote about the self-induced blindness of the title character in another play, who defeats the Sphinx, kills his father, and marries his mother. For 10 points, identify this playwright of Antigone and Oedipus Rex.	{Sophocles}	Antigone	False
1966	"In one of this author's works, the title object allows for the affair of Charlotte and Prince Amerigo to be discovered by Maggie Verver. That novel is The Golden Bowl. Catherine Sloper is the main character of his Washington Square, and Gilbert Osmond marries Isabel Archer in another novel by this author. He also wrote a ""ghost story"" narrated by the Miles and Flora's governess. For 20 points, name this author of The Portrait of a Lady and The Turn of the Screw."	{Henry James}	The_Turn_of_the_Screw	False
1967	One character in this novel beats Herb to death with a shovel. That character, Connie Rivers, later marries a character who delivers a stillborn baby, Rose of Sharon. Grampa and Granma both die during a journey which takes place in this novel, in which a family whose members include Tom, Ma, and Pa tries to escape the Dust Bowl. For 20 points, name this novel about the Joads' journey from Oklahoma to California.	The {Grapes} of Wrath	The_Grapes_of_Wrath	True
1968	"This author wrote about a violence-obsessed train driver named Jacques Lantier in the novel The Human Beast. That novel is part of a twenty-novel cycle detailing the life of the Rougon-Macquart family, which also includes the novels Nana and Germinal. He also wrote an open letter accusing the French government of anti-Semitism for imprisoning Alfred Dreyfus. For 20 points, name this French naturalist author of ""J'accuse."""	Emile {Zola}	Émile_Zola	False
1969	"This man permitted a group of unarmed protesters to enter Goa in 1955, thirty of which were killed, and later invaded that colony. This man stated, ""We shall never allow that torch of freedom to be blown out, however high the wind or stormy the tempest,"" in his ""Tryst With Destiny"" speech. This man presided over the Lahore session of the Indian National Congress in 1929 that advocated independence. For 20 points, name this man who served as the first prime minister of post-independence India."	Jawaharlal {Nehru}	India	False
1970	Some people have used the Dieppe maps to argue that this country was originally discovered by the Portuguese. The Eureka Flag was the symbol of a rebellion which took place in 1854 during a gold rush in this country. Prime Ministers of this country include Robert Menzies, John Howard, and the current leader, Julia Gillard. An island belonging to this country was colonized in 1803 and named Van Diemen's Land. For 20 points, name this nation, home to Botany Bay.	Commonwealth of {Australia}	Portugal	False
1971	"A quantum analog of one formula named for this man is named for Ehrenfest (AIR-en-fest). Interference patterns due to an air film between a lens and a glass are called this man's ""rings."" Another law named for this man is also called the law of inertia, while a third law is often summarized as saying that for every action, there is an equal and opposite reaction. For 10 points, name this British physicist whose three laws of motion include the equation F equals m a."	Sir Isaac {Newton}	Newton's_laws_of_motion	False
1972	In the wake of this battle, a pursuing group of victors were ambushed and killed near an area known as The Malfosse. One side's troops consisted of a select number of Huscarls, or professional soldiers, while the majority of their forces were peasantry called Fyrd. That side attempted to form a shield wall to hold off the enemy's cavalry, but those forces, loyal to Harold Godwinson, were defeated by the Norman invaders under William the Conqueror. For 10 points, name this 1066 battle fought in Britain.	Battle of {Hastings}	Battle_of_Hastings	True
1973	"In this opera's first act, a chorus of street children sing ""Avec la garde montante."" An officer in this opera is seduced when a woman performs a seguidilla (seg-weh-DEE-ya) dance, leading to his arrest. Later, that character encounters the same woman, to whom he sings the Flower Song, and engages in a sword fight with a bullfighter. This opera, which opens at a cigarette factory in Seville, features a love triangle between Escamillo, Don José, and the title woman, who sings the Habanera. For 10 points, name this Georges Bizet opera about a Spanish gypsy."	Carmen	Carmen	True
1974	"At this play's end, one character blows out some candles to the narration of her sibling, who reveals that he has moved away from his family. One pivotal scene sees a figurine of a unicorn lose its horn while a ""gentleman caller"" named Jim is dancing with the emotionally backwards daughter of Amanda. That woman, Laura, then laments how the unicorn looks just like all the other figurines that comprise the namesake collection of animals. For 10 points, name this play by Tennessee Williams."	The {Glass Menagerie}	The_Glass_Menagerie	True
1975	"This author published the novella The Monster, as well as a book about the brothers Jimmie and Tommie, who are related to the titular ""girl of the streets,"" Maggie. The most famous novel by this man sees the death of Jim Conklin, and features characters as ""Loud Soldier,"" ""Tall Soldier,"" and ""Young Soldier,"" the last of whom is the protagonist, Henry Fleming. Henry survives a charge against a Confederate line in the most famous novel of, for 10 points, what American author of The Red Badge of Courage?"	Stephen {Crane}	The_Red_Badge_of_Courage	False
1976	"This poet described a crucifix in the antlers of a deer returning to an innyard in ""The Hunter in the Snow,"" which joins his ""Landscape with the Fall of Icarus"" as part of his Pictures from Breughel. In another poem, he wrote, ""forgive me, they were delicious, so sweet and so cold"" regarding ""the plums in the icebox."" His masterpiece describes an object ""glazed with rainwater beside the white chickens."" For 10 points, identify this American poet who wrote that ""so much depends on a red wheelbarrow."""	William Carlos {Williams}	Snow	False
1977	"In this author's work, An Image of Africa, he attacks the author of the Heart of Darkness, calling Joseph Conrad ""a bloody racist."" He wrote a novel in which the priest Ezeulu clashes with T. K. Winterbottom, Arrow of God. Another of this man's novels takes its title from the Yeats poem ""The Second Coming,"" and is about a yam farmer named Okonkwo who lives in Umuofia. For 10 points, name this Nigerian author of Things Fall Apart."	Chinua {Achebe}	Things_Fall_Apart	False
1978	This country's first king was the Bavarian prince Otto. Thousands of this country's citizens were killed in the Massacre of Chios (KEY-os). During this country's war of independence, the Society of Friends was led by Alexander Ypsilanti (ip-suh-LAN-tee), and that war ended with this country gaining independence from the Ottoman Empire in 1830. This nation carries on a tradition of democracy begun in ancient times by Solon and Cleisthenes (KLICE-thuh-nees). For 10 points, name this country that hosted the first modern Olympics in 1896 in Athens.	{Greece} [or {Hellas} ; or {Hellinic Republic} ; or {Ellada} ; or {Elliniki Dimokratia} ]	Solon	False
1979	Often depicted as bearded man, either green or black in color and swathed like a mummy, this Egyptian deity is credited with the introduction of agriculture. In myth he is drowned and dismembered, only to be resurrected later by his wife. For 10 points, name this god, husband of Isis, an archetype of death and rebirth, who became the Egyptian lord of the dead.	Osiris	Isis	False
1980	"A soliloquy from this play features the main character lamenting ""Life's but a walking shadow, a poor player."" One character in this play was born via C-section and camouflages his soldiers in tree limbs from Birnam Wood, allowing him to exact revenge while fulfilling the prophecy of the three witches. The title character's wife sleepwalks, uttering ""Out, out damned spot!"" For 10 points, name this Shakespeare tragedy in which the titular Thane of Cawdor murders King Duncan, often referred to as the ""Scottish Play."""	{Macbeth}	Macbeth	True
1981	"This composer included movements inspired by Decoration Day and Thanksgiving in his Holiday Symphony, while his fourth symphony contains a section that incorporates the Watchman hymn. Ragtime influences can be seen in his composition Central Park in the Dark, a work which was grouped in the collection Two Contemplations with his piece The Unanswered Question. This composer of the Concord Sonata may be best known for a work that contains a movement named after ""The Housatonic at Stockbridge."" For 10 points, name this American composer of Three Places in New England."	Charles {Ives}	Symphony_No._9_(Dvořák)	False
1982	"A minor character in this play can be summoned by a bell that does not always work, and does not have eyelids. Near the end, a woman who drowned her illegitimate child attempts to stab another woman in the Second Empire-style room in which the entire play takes place. For 10 points, Estelle and Ines are characters in which existentialist play in which Joseph Garcin claims ""Hell is other people,"" by Jean-Paul Sartre?"	{No Exit} [or {Huis Clos} ]	No_Exit	True
1983	This work sees a man named Calandrino tricked into thinking he is pregnant. Another part of this work sees Friar Alberto pretend to be the archangel Gabriel so he can sleep with a woman. The term brigata refers to the ten main characters of this work such as Pampinea and Dioneo, who lock themselves in a cathedral and each tell a story a day for ten days to pass time during the Black Plague. For 10 points, name this Renaissance short story collection by Italian author Giovanni Boccaccio.	The {Decameron}	Giovanni_Boccaccio	False
1984	The Records of the Grand Historian was written during this dynasty. This dynasty's extent of control was increased by the Emperor Wudi. This dynasty was temporarily overthrown by Wang Mang. Buddhism first reached China during this dynasty. It was founded by Liu Bang. The Yellow Turban Rebellion was directed against it. After this dynasty was the Three Kingdoms period and this dynasty succeeded the Qin. For 10 points, name this Chinese dynasty than began in 206 B.C. and ultimately ended in the third century A.D.	{Han} Dynasty	Song_dynasty	False
1985	"This man's victories included overcoming a surprise attack at the Battle of Marengo and defeating Tsar Alexander I at the Battle of Austerlitz. This man devised the Continental System as a blockade against Great Britain. The Peninsular War allowed this man to place his brother Joseph on the throne of Spain. This man was sent to St. Helena after he returned to power during the ""Hundred Days,"" which followed his earlier exile to Elba. For 20 points, name this emperor."	{Napoleon} Bonaparte [or {Napoleon Bonaparte}]	Battle_of_Austerlitz	False
1986	"This politician was nearly assassinated by the student Ferdinand Cohen-Blind. This politician initiated the Kulturkampf against his country's Catholic Church. This man formed the League of the Three Emperors and the Triple Alliance in order to ensure the balance of power in late nineteenth century Europe. He also provoked the Franco-Prussian War and worked for Wilhelm I in engineering the unification of Germany. For 20 points, name this German statesman nicknamed the ""Iron Chancellor."""	Otto Eduard Leopold von {Bismarck}	Francisco_Franco	False
1987	"One work from this country written by José Hernández, Martín Fierro, is an example of its gaucho literature. Molina and Valentín are imprisoned in another work from this country, Kiss of the Spider Woman. One prolific author from this country wrote a story containing a point in space where one can see everything and another story about a library that contains every possible work of a fixed length. Those stories are ""The Aleph"" and ""The Library of Babel."" For 20 points, name this South American country, home to Jorge Luis Borges."	República {Argentina} [or Argentine Republic]	Jorge_Luis_Borges	False
1988	One battle in this war was fought between forces commanded by Stephen Van Rensselaer and Isaac Brock and was called the Battle of Queenston Heights. The bloodiest battle of this war saw participation by Jacob Brown and Gordon Drummond, as well as Winfield Scott, and was Lundy's Lane. Another engagement in this war saw the razing of Washington, D.C., including the burning of the White House. This war was ended by the Treaty of Ghent. For 10 points, name this war that ended in 1815 and began in its namesake year.	War of {1812}	World_War_I	False
1989	The rate-limiting step in this pathway is catalyzed by phosphofructokinase (FOSS-fo-FROOK-toe-KYE-nase) and, like the first step, requires a magnesium cofactor. The sixth step of this pathway transfers a phosphate group to G3P and attaches a hydrogen to NAD+ (N-A-D-plus), while the seventh step transfers that phosphate group to ADP, recouping two of the initial ATP inputs. The last step of this pathway also creates ATP for a net of two ATP per input glucose molecule. For 10 points, name this pathway that breaks down glucose.	{glycolysis}	Adenosine_triphosphate	False
1990	"This author wrote a short story in which Dr. Rabin, the head of the title mental facility, dies of a stroke after being institutionalized himself. This author of ""Ward No. 6"" wrote a play in which a man nicknamed ""Waffles"" accompanies the title character, who angrily rejects Serebryakov's plan to move to Finland. In another play by this author, the footman Firs is boarded up inside the title estate, which is sold by Madame Ranevskaya. For 10 points, name this Russian playwright who wrote Uncle Vanya and The Cherry Orchard ."	Anton Pavlovich {Chekhov}	The_Cherry_Orchard	False
1991	Each part of these objects is examined once in a process called traversal. A specific type of these objects is modified by the DSW Algorithm. Exemplified by scapegoat and red-black types, these objects, when not completely sorted, are heaps. In the binary search type of these objects, the left side has nodes with keys that are less than the keys on the right. For 10 points, name these data structures from computer science that consist of root and leaf nodes.	trees	Sorting_algorithm	False
1992	This President defused the Newburgh Conspiracy and, in another post, was nearly replaced by Horatio Gates due to the Conway Cabal. As President, he met with a French ambassador who tried to draw him into war with Britain named Citizen Genêt (JUH-nay). His farewell address discouraged foreign alliances. The signing of Jay's Treaty and the Whiskey Rebellion occurred during the Presidency of this victor at Trenton and Yorktown. For 10 points, name this man who appointed Alexander Hamilton as Secretary of the Treasury as the first President.	George {Washington}	Whiskey_Rebellion	False
1993	In RSA encryption, two of these numbers are multiplied together to create a public key. Proof of the Riemann hypothesis would link the distribution of these numbers to solutions of the Riemann zeta function. The Fundamental Theorem of Arithmetic states that every positive integer greater than one is a unique product of these numbers. For 10 points, name these numbers that are only divisible by themselves and one.	{prime} numbers	Bernhard_Riemann	False
1994	"One passage in this work exhorts the reader to ""Drink! For you know not whence you came, nor why."" An extended passage near the end of this work describes ""loquacious vessels"" of clay, one of whom wonders ""Who is the potter…and who the pot?"" An oft-quoted verse in this poem warns that ""The bird is on the wing."" Famously translated by Edward Fitzgerald, this work describes ""A Book of verses underneath the bough / A jug of wine, a loaf of bread - and thou."" For 10 points, name this work of 101 quatrains, written by the Farsi poet Omar Khayyam."	The {Rubaiyat} of Omar Khayyam	Rubaiyat_of_Omar_Khayyam	True
1995	This philosopher argued complex ideas, such as modes, substances, and relations, are created by combining, comparing, or abstracting simple ideas. He claimed people have the natural right to objects they mix their labor with in his book outlining a theory of government's based on the protection of private property, his Second Treatise on Government. He distinguished between the primary and secondary qualities of objects in his Essay Concerning Human Understanding. For 10 points, name this British philosopher who argued that the mind was a tabula rasa, or blank slate.	John {Locke}	An_Essay_Concerning_Human_Understanding	False
1996	"Pieces within this opera include the trio ""Zitti, zitti"" and the aria ""Una voce poco fa."" One character in this opera pretends to be the student Lindoro in order to deceive Dr. Bartolo. The title character of this opera repeatedly sings the phrase ""della citta"" in one aria. That title character aids Count Almaviva in wooing Rosina and sings the aria ""Largo al Factotum."" For 10 points, name this opera buffa about the servant Figaro, composed by Gioacchino Rossini."	The {Barber} of {Seville} [or {Il Barbiere di Siviglia} ]	The_Barber_of_Seville	True
1997	"This composer set works by the poet Hermann Mueller in his song cycle Die schoene Muellerin and another cycle that ends with a musical depiction of a hurdy-gurdy man. This composer of Winterreise also wrote a ""Little"" and a ""Great"" C-major symphony. He used the song ""Die Forelle"" as the basis of his Piano Quintet in A Major. For 10 points, name this Austrian composer of the Trout Quintet who composed hundreds of Lieder in addition to his eighth, ""Unfinished"" symphony."	Franz Peter {Schubert}	Symphony_No._9_(Dvořák)	False
1998	"This French author of Meditations on First Philosophy and Discourse on Method resolved his doubts with the proposition ""I think, therefore I am."" He also invented coordinate graphing. For 10 points, name this philosopher known for his namesake coordinate plane."	René {Descartes} [accept Renatus {Cartesius} ]	Meditations_on_First_Philosophy	False
1999	The Batanes and Babuyan Islands are located in a strait north of this nation, whose center is governed by the Visaya administrative region. Containing such rivers as the Pasig and Cagayan, its highest point, Mt. Apo, is located on its second largest island. A better-known peak, however, is a volcano whose 1991 eruption was the second largest of the 20th century. Most its population lives on the islands of Mindinao and Luzon, which contains the aforementioned Mount Pinatubo. For 20 points, name this Asian nation.	Republic of the {Philippines}	Falkland_Islands	False
2000	"One person who plays this instrument was awarded the first Pulitzer Prize for Music for a jazz recording; that work is Blood on the Fields and was recorded by Wynton Marsalis. The Hot Five and Hot Seven were lead by a man who played this instrument, while another player of it wrote ""A Night in Tunisia"" and played a ""bent"" version. That man, Dizzy Gillespie, would also collaborate with a man who would play this instrument on Sketches of Spain and Kind of Blue. For 10 points, name this brass instrument played by Miles Davis and Louis Armstrong."	{trumpet}	Louis_Armstrong	False
